cloud/service-overview.md, before:

---
title: Service overview
excerpt: See information on your service's connection parameters, configuration, and resource usage
product: cloud
keywords: [connect, services]
tags: [storage, resources, disk space]
---

# Service overview
When you log in to your [Timescale Cloud account][cloud-login], you see the
`Services` page. Click the service you are interested in to see the `Services
Overview` tab. This section contains your service's connection information, and
an overview of the configuration and resource usage for the service.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tsc-services-overview.png" alt="Timescale Cloud Services Overview"/>

## Service users
By default, when you create a new service, a new `tsdbadmin` user is created.
This is the user that you use to connect to your new service.

The `tsdbadmin` user is the owner of the database, but is not a superuser. We 
do not currently allow access to the `postgres` user, nor creation of multiple 
databases. We recommend using schemas or creating additional services for data
isolation.

On Timescale Cloud services, the `tsdbadmin` user can create another user 
with any other roles. For a complete list of roles available, see the
[PostgreSQL role attributes documentation][pg-roles-doc].

[cloud-login]: https://console.cloud.timescale.com/
[pg-roles-doc]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/role-attributes.html

Commit message:

metadata: add cloud ui path data (#2008)
Having Cloud UI path data in metadata for Cloud pages lets us create two
parallel navigations, one that is topic-focused and one that parallels
the Cloud UI IA.

cloud/service-overview.md, after:

---
title: Service overview
excerpt: See information on your service's connection parameters, configuration, and resource usage
product: cloud
keywords: [connect, services]
tags: [storage, resources, disk space]
cloud_ui:
    path:
        - [services, :serviceID, overview]
    priority: 1
---

# Service overview

When you log in to your [Timescale Cloud account][cloud-login], you see the
`Services` page. Click the service you are interested in to see the `Services
Overview` tab. This section contains your service's connection information, and
an overview of the configuration and resource usage for the service.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tsc-services-overview.png" alt="Timescale Cloud Services Overview"/>

## Service users

By default, when you create a new service, a new `tsdbadmin` user is created.
This is the user that you use to connect to your new service.

The `tsdbadmin` user is the owner of the database, but is not a superuser. We
do not currently allow access to the `postgres` user, nor creation of multiple
databases. We recommend using schemas or creating additional services for data
isolation.

On Timescale Cloud services, the `tsdbadmin` user can create another user
with any other roles. For a complete list of roles available, see the
[PostgreSQL role attributes documentation][pg-roles-doc].

[cloud-login]: https://console.cloud.timescale.com/
[pg-roles-doc]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/role-attributes.html
