use-timescale/security/strict-ssl.md, before:

---
title: Connect with a stricter SSL mode
excerpt: Connect to Timescale with a stricter SSL mode
products: [cloud]
keywords: [security]
tags: [ssl]
---

# Connect with a stricter SSL mode

The default connection string for Timescale uses the SSL mode `require`.
If you want your connection client to verify the server's identity, you can
connect with an [SSL mode][ssl-modes] of `verify-ca` or `verify-full`. To do so,
you need to store a copy of the certificate chain where your connection tool can
find it.

This section provides instructions for setting up a stricter SSL connection.

## SSL certificates

All connections to Timescale are encrypted. As part of the secure
connection protocol, the server proves its identity by providing clients with a
certificate. This certificate should be issued and signed by a well-known and
trusted Certificate Authority.

Because requesting a certificate from a Certificate Authority takes some time,
Timescale databases are initialized with a self-signed certificate. This
lets you start up a database immediately. After your service is started, a
signed certificate is requested behind the scenes. The new certificate is
usually received within 30 minutes. Your database certificate is then replaced
with almost no interruption. Connections are reset, and most clients reconnect
automatically.

With the signed certificate, you can switch your connections to a stricter SSL
mode, such as `verify-ca` or `verify-full`.

For more information on the different SSL modes, see the [PostgreSQL SSL mode
descriptions][ssl-modes].

## Connect to your database with a stricter SSL mode

To set up a stricter SSL connection:

1.  Generate a copy of your certificate chain and store it in the right location
1.  Change your Timescale connection string

<Procedure>

### Connecting to your database with a stricter SSL mode

1.  Use the `openssl` tool to connect to your Timescale service and get
    the certificate bundle. Store the bundle in a file called `bundle.crt`.

    Replace `$SERVICE_URL_WITH_PORT` with your Timescale connection URL:

    ```shell
    openssl s_client -showcerts -partial_chain -starttls postgres \
                 -connect $SERVICE_URL_WITH_PORT < /dev/null 2>/dev/null | \
                 awk '/BEGIN CERTIFICATE/,/END CERTIFICATE/{ print }' > bundle.crt
    ```

1.  Copy the bundle to your clipboard:

    <Terminal>

    <tab label="MacOS">

    ```shell
    pbcopy < bundle.crt
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Linux">

    ```shell
    xclip -sel clip < bundle.crt
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```shell
    clip.exe < bundle.crt
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

1.  Navigate to <https://whatsmychaincert.com/>. This online tool generates a
    full certificate chain, including the root CA certificate, which is not
    included in the certificate bundle returned by the database.

1.  Paste your certificate bundle in the provided box.
    Check `Include Root Certificate`. Click `Generate Chain`.

1.  Save the downloaded certificate chain to `~/.postgresql/root.crt`.

1.  Change your Timescale connection string from `sslmode=require` to
    either `sslmode=verify-full` or `sslmode=verify-ca`. For example, to
    connect to your database with `psql`, run:

    ```shell
    psql "postgres://tsdbadmin@$SERVICE_URL_WITH_PORT/tsdb?sslmode=verify-full"
    ```

</Procedure>

## Verify certificate type used by your database

To check whether the certificate has been replaced yet, connect to your database
instance and inspect the returned certificate:

```shell
openssl s_client -showcerts -partial_chain -starttls postgres -connect <HOST>:<PORT> < /dev/null 2>/dev/null  | grep "ZeroSSL"
```

[ssl-modes]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-ssl.html#LIBPQ-SSL-SSLMODE-STATEMENTS

Commit message:

Explain how encryption works in cloud (#2959)
* Explain how encryption works in cloud

We used a strong statement "All connections to Timescale are
encrypted.", which is not correct. In fact customers can connect to
their databases without using TLS and we need to address this in
documentation. It's yet to be defined if we want to make this user
configurable, but for now we need to update the doc to reflect the
reality.

* Update strict-ssl.md

Signed-off-by: Ana Tavares <110231687+contentana@users.noreply.github.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Ana Tavares <110231687+contentana@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Ana Tavares <110231687+contentana@users.noreply.github.com>

use-timescale/security/strict-ssl.md, after:

---
title: Connect with a stricter SSL mode
excerpt: Connect to Timescale with a stricter SSL mode
products: [cloud]
keywords: [security]
tags: [ssl]
---

# Connect with a stricter SSL mode

The default connection string for Timescale uses the Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) mode `require`.
Users can choose not to use Transport Layer Security (TLS) while connecting to their databases, but connecting to production databases without encryption is strongly discouraged. To
achieve even stronger security, clients may select to verify the identity of the
server. If you want your connection client to verify the server's identity, you
can connect with an [SSL mode][ssl-modes] of `verify-ca` or `verify-full`. To
do so, you need to store a copy of the certificate chain where your connection
tool can find it.

This section provides instructions for setting up a stricter SSL connection.

## SSL certificates

As part of the secure connection protocol, the server proves its identity by
providing clients with a certificate. This certificate should be issued and
signed by a well-known and trusted Certificate Authority.

Because requesting a certificate from a Certificate Authority takes some time,
Timescale databases are initialized with a self-signed certificate. This
lets you start up a database immediately. After your service is started, a
signed certificate is requested behind the scenes. The new certificate is
usually received within 30 minutes. Your database certificate is then replaced
with almost no interruption. Connections are reset, and most clients reconnect
automatically.

With the signed certificate, you can switch your connections to a stricter SSL
mode, such as `verify-ca` or `verify-full`.

For more information on the different SSL modes, see the [PostgreSQL SSL mode
descriptions][ssl-modes].

## Connect to your database with a stricter SSL mode

To set up a stricter SSL connection:

1.  Generate a copy of your certificate chain and store it in the right location
1.  Change your Timescale connection string

<Procedure>

### Connecting to your database with a stricter SSL mode

1.  Use the `openssl` tool to connect to your Timescale service and get
    the certificate bundle. Store the bundle in a file called `bundle.crt`.

    Replace `$SERVICE_URL_WITH_PORT` with your Timescale connection URL:

    ```shell
    openssl s_client -showcerts -partial_chain -starttls postgres \
                 -connect $SERVICE_URL_WITH_PORT < /dev/null 2>/dev/null | \
                 awk '/BEGIN CERTIFICATE/,/END CERTIFICATE/{ print }' > bundle.crt
    ```

1.  Copy the bundle to your clipboard:

    <Terminal>

    <tab label="MacOS">

    ```shell
    pbcopy < bundle.crt
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Linux">

    ```shell
    xclip -sel clip < bundle.crt
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```shell
    clip.exe < bundle.crt
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

1.  Navigate to <https://whatsmychaincert.com/>. This online tool generates a
    full certificate chain, including the root Certificate Authority certificate, which is not
    included in the certificate bundle returned by the database.

1.  Paste your certificate bundle in the provided box.
    Check `Include Root Certificate`. Click `Generate Chain`.

1.  Save the downloaded certificate chain to `~/.postgresql/root.crt`.

1.  Change your Timescale connection string from `sslmode=require` to
    either `sslmode=verify-full` or `sslmode=verify-ca`. For example, to
    connect to your database with `psql`, run:

    ```shell
    psql "postgres://tsdbadmin@$SERVICE_URL_WITH_PORT/tsdb?sslmode=verify-full"
    ```

</Procedure>

## Verify the certificate type used by your database

To check whether the certificate has been replaced yet, connect to your database
instance and inspect the returned certificate:

```shell
openssl s_client -showcerts -partial_chain -starttls postgres -connect <HOST>:<PORT> < /dev/null 2>/dev/null  | grep "ZeroSSL"
```

[ssl-modes]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/libpq-ssl.html#LIBPQ-SSL-SSLMODE-STATEMENTS
