use-timescale/backup-restore/backup-restore-cloud.md, before:

---
title: Backup and restore
excerpt: Understand how backups and restores work in Timescale
products: [cloud]
keywords: [backups, restore]
tags: [recovery, failures]
---

# Backup and restore

Timescale automatically handles backup and restore for all
services using the `pgBackRest` tool. You don't need to perform
backups for your Timescale service manually.

Timescale automatically creates one full backup every week, and
incremental backups every day. Additionally, all WAL ([Write-Ahead Log][wal])
files are retained back to the oldest full backup. This means that you always
have a full backup available for the current and previous week, and your service
can be restored to any point during this time period.

In the event of a storage failure, a service automatically restores from backup
to the point of failure. In the event of a user error where a point-in-time
recovery needs to be done, contact Support by clicking the `Support` button in
the Timescale console. To help get things moving quickly, make sure 
you provide the relevant service ID, and the date and time in UTC format. The Timescale 
support team usually restores to a fork, but if you need an in-place restore, make sure
you include that information in your support request.

This diagram describes how a restore from backup occurs after a storage failure:

<Highlight type="note">
Compute failures do not require a full restore from backup. For more
information, see the
[rapid recovery section](/use-timescale/latest/ha-replicas/high-availability/#rapid-recovery).
</Highlight>

<img class="main-content__illustration"
width={1375} height={944}
src="https://www.timescale.com/blog/content/images/2022/08/backups-3.png"
alt="Diagram showing recovery from backup. First, the latest full
backup is restored. Then, the incremental backup is restored.
Finally, WAL is replayed to cover any remaining gap."/>

[wal]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/wal-intro.html
[support]: https://www.timescale.com/contact/

Commit message:

update backup restore to remove support

use-timescale/backup-restore/backup-restore-cloud.md, after:

---
title: Backup and restore
excerpt: Understand how backups and restores work in Timescale
products: [cloud]
keywords: [backups, restore]
tags: [recovery, failures]
---

# Backup and restore

Timescale automatically handles backup and restore for all
services using the `pgBackRest` tool. You don't need to perform
backups for your Timescale service manually.

Timescale automatically creates one full backup every week, and
incremental backups every day. Additionally, all WAL ([Write-Ahead Log][wal])
files are retained back to the oldest full backup. This means that you always
have a full backup available for the current and previous week, and your service
can be restored to any point during this time period.

In the event of a storage failure, a service automatically restores from backup
to the point of failure. In the event of a user error where a point-in-time
recovery needs to be done, you can create a PITR fork by following the
instructions [here][pitr].

This diagram describes how a restore from backup occurs after a storage failure:

<Highlight type="note">
Compute failures do not require a full restore from backup. For more
information, see the
[rapid recovery section](/use-timescale/latest/ha-replicas/high-availability/#rapid-recovery).
</Highlight>

<img class="main-content__illustration"
width={1375} height={944}
src="https://www.timescale.com/blog/content/images/2022/08/backups-3.png"
alt="Diagram showing recovery from backup. First, the latest full
backup is restored. Then, the incremental backup is restored.
Finally, WAL is replayed to cover any remaining gap."/>

[wal]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/wal-intro.html
[support]: https://www.timescale.com/contact/
[pitr]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/backup-restore/point-in-time-recovery/
