# Telemetry and Version Checking
We enable anonymous usage sharing to help us better
understand and assist TimescaleDB users, as well as provide automated version
checks. We emphasize that privacy of our users is paramount, so we do not
collect any personally-identifying information. The following is an example of
the JSON that is sent to our servers about a specific deployment:

```javascript
{
	"db_uuid": "26917841-2fc0-48fd-b096-ba19b3fda98f",
	"license": {
		"edition": "community"
	},
	"exported_db_uuid": "8dd4543c-f44e-43c9-a666-02d23bb09b90",
	"installed_time": "2000-04-17 10:56:59.427738-04",
	"last_tuned_time": "2001-02-03T04:05:06-0300",
	"last_tuned_version": "1.0.0",
	"install_method": "source",
	"os_name": "Linux",
	"os_release": "4.9.125-linuxkit",
	"os_version": "#1 SMP Fri Sep 7 08:20:28 UTC 2018",
	"os_name_pretty": "Debian GNU/Linux 8 (jessie)",
	"postgresql_version": "12.4",
	"timescaledb_version": "1.7.0",
	"build_architecture": "x86_64",
	"build_architecture_bit_size": "64",
	"build_os_name": "Linux",
	"build_os_version": "4.9.125-linuxkit",
	"data_volume": "65982148",
	"db_metadata":{ 
			"promscale_version": "0.1.0", 
			"promscale_commit_hash": ""
    },
	"num_hypertables": "3",
	"num_continuous_aggs": "0",
	"num_reorder_policies": "1",
	"num_drop_chunks_policies": "2",
	"related_extensions":{
			"pg_prometheus": "false",
			"PostGIS": "true", 
			"promscale": "true"
    }
}
```

In particular, the `UUID` fields contain no identifying information.
Both `UUID` fields are randomly generated by appropriately seeded
random number generators.  For full transparency, we expose a
new API function, [`get_telemetry_report`][get_telemetry_report], that returns
a text string of the exact JSON that is sent to our servers.

Additionally any content of the table `_timescaledb_catalog.metadata` which has
`include_in_telemetry` set to `true` and the value of `timescaledb_telemetry.cloud`
will be included in the telemetry report.

Notably, telemetry reports a different set of values depending on the license
that your TimescaleDB instance is running under. If you are using OSS or Community,
we only send an "edition" field, which could have a value of either "apache_only" or "community",
as relevant.


## Version Checking
The database sends telemetry reports periodically in the background.
In response to the telemetry report, the database will receive the most recent
version of TimescaleDB available for installation. This version will be
recorded in the user’s server logs, along with any applicable out-of-date
version warnings. While you do not have to update immediately to the newest
release, many users have reported that performance issues or bugs
automatically resolve after updating their version of TimescaleDB.

## Disabling Telemetry
Although we invite our community to help us keep improving our
product, we do understand when users would like to disable telemetry. Note that
disabling telemetry also disables the version checking functionality.

Telemetry is sent on a per-database basis, so users can disable telemetry for specific databases or for an entire instance.

To turn off telemetry for an instance, simply include the following line
in your `postgresql.conf` file:

```
timescaledb.telemetry_level=off
```

Alternatively, in a `psql` console, run:

```
ALTER [SYSTEM | DATABASE | USER] { *db_name* | *role_specification* } SET timescaledb.telemetry_level=off
```

If `ALTER DATABASE` is run, then this will disable telemetry for the specified
database, but not for other databases in the instance. If `ALTER SYSTEM` is
run, this will disable telemetry for the entire instance.
Note that superuser privileges are necessary to run `ALTER SYSTEM`.

After running the desired command, reload the new server configuration with `SELECT pg_reload_conf()` in order
for the configuration changes to take effect.

If at a later time you wish to re-enable version checking and telemetry, either
include the following line in `postgresql.conf`:

```
timescaledb.telemetry_level=basic
```

or run the following command in psql:

```
ALTER [SYSTEM | DATABASE | USER] { *db_name* | *role_specification* } SET timescaledb.telemetry_level=basic
```

[get_telemetry_report]: /api#get_telemetry_report
