.github/pull_request_template.md, before:

# Description

[Short summary of why you created this PR]

# Links

Fixes #[insert issue link, if any]

# Review checklists
Reviewers: use this section to ensure you have checked everything before approving this PR:

## Subject matter expert (SME) review checklist

- [ ] Is the content technically accurate?
- [ ] Is the content complete?
- [ ] Is the content presented in a logical order?
- [ ] Does the content use appropriate names for features and products?
- [ ] Does the content provide relevant links to further information?

## Documentation team review checklist

- [ ] Is the content free from typos?
- [ ] Does the content use plain English?
- [ ] Does the content contain clear sections for concepts, tasks, and references?
- [ ] Are procedure and highlight tags used appropriately?
- [ ] Has the index been updated appropriately?
- [ ] Have any images been uploaded to the correct location, and are resolvable?
- [ ] Are all links provided in reference style, and resolvable?
- [ ] Have you checked the built version of this content?

Commit message:

Add checklist item for 404 redirects (#1127)
Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

.github/pull_request_template.md, after:

# Description

[Short summary of why you created this PR]

# Links

Fixes #[insert issue link, if any]

# Review checklists
Reviewers: use this section to ensure you have checked everything before approving this PR:

## Subject matter expert (SME) review checklist

- [ ] Is the content technically accurate?
- [ ] Is the content complete?
- [ ] Is the content presented in a logical order?
- [ ] Does the content use appropriate names for features and products?
- [ ] Does the content provide relevant links to further information?

## Documentation team review checklist

- [ ] Is the content free from typos?
- [ ] Does the content use plain English?
- [ ] Does the content contain clear sections for concepts, tasks, and references?
- [ ] Are procedure and highlight tags used appropriately?
- [ ] Has the index been updated appropriately?
- [ ] Have any images been uploaded to the correct location, and are resolvable?
- [ ] Are all links provided in reference style, and resolvable?
- [ ] If the page index was updated, are redirects required
      and have they been implemented?
- [ ] Have you checked the built version of this content?
