timescaledb/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/compression-on-continuous-aggregates.md, before:

# Compression on continuous aggregates
Continuous aggregates are often used to store downsampled historical data.
The historical data is almost never modified or recomputed and is only used 
for serving analytic queries. For this use case, it is often beneficial to 
store the materialized data in compressed form to save on storage costs. 
You can get these cost savings by enabling compression on continuous 
aggregates.

<highlight type="warning">
Currently, TimescaleDB does not support refreshing compressed regions of a 
continuous aggregate. To do this, you have to manually decompress 
the compressed chunk and then execute a [`refresh_continuous_aggregate`](/api/latest/continuous-aggregates/refresh_continuous_aggregate) call.
</highlight>

## Enable compression on continuous aggregates
You can enable and disable compression on continuous aggregated by setting the
`compress` parameter when you alter the view.

<procedure>

### Enabling and disabling compression on continuous aggregates
1.  For an existing continuous aggregate, at the `psql` prompt, enable
 compression:
    ```sql
    ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW cagg_name set (timescaledb.compress = true);
    ```
1.  Disable compression:
    ```sql
    ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW cagg_name set (timescaledb.compress = false);
    ```

</procedure>

Disabling compression on a continuous aggregate fails if there are 
compressed chunks associated with the continuous aggregate. In this case, you 
need to decompress the chunks, and then drop any compression policy on the 
continuous aggregate, before you disable compression. For more detailed information, see the
[decompress chunks] [decompress-chunks] section:

```sql
SELECT decompress_chunk(c, true) FROM show_chunks('cagg_name') c;
```

## Compression policies on continuous aggregates
Before  setting up a compression policy on a continuous aggregate, you should
set up a [refresh policy][refresh-policy]. The compression policy interval should be set so that
actively refreshed regions are not compressed. This is to prevent refresh
policies from failing. For example, consider a refresh policy like this:

```sql
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('cagg_name',
  start_offset => INTERVAL '30 days',
  end_offset => INTERVAL '1 day',
  schedule_interval => INTERVAL '1 hour');
```

With this kind of refresh policy, the compression policy needs the `compress_after` 
parameter greater than the `refresh_start` parameter of the continuous aggregate policy:

```sql
SELECT add_compression_policy('cagg_name', compress_after=>'45 days'::interval);
```

After a chunk is compressed, manual refresh calls that attempt to refresh the 
continuous aggregate's compressed region will fail with an error like this:

```sql
CALL refresh_continuous_aggregate('cagg_name', NULL, now() - '30 days'::interval );
ERROR:  cannot update/delete rows from chunk "_hyper_3_3_chunk" as it is compressed
```

[decompress-chunks]:  /how-to-guides/compression/decompress-chunks 
[refresh-policy]: /how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/refresh-policies

Commit message:

Add info about compression and caggs
Some readers were missing the sections that spelled out the limitations
of compressed caggs. This adds the info explicitly to the introduction
of the cagg compression guide, also adds it to the troubleshooting
section, and makes some minor edits to the prior warning.

timescaledb/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/compression-on-continuous-aggregates.md, after:

# Compress continuous aggregates
Continuous aggregates are often used to downsample historical data. If the data
is only used for analytical queries and never modified, you can compress the
aggregate to save on storage.

Compression on continuous aggregates works similarly to
[compression on hypertables][compression]. Compressed chunks can be queried, but
they can't be updated or deleted. For continuous aggregates, that means
compressed chunks can't be refreshed.

If you receive historical data and need to refresh a compressed chunk, see
[the troubleshooting guide](/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/troubleshooting/#cannot-refresh-compressed-chunks-of-a-continuous-aggregate).

<highlight type="warning">
You can't refresh the compressed regions of a continuous aggregate. To avoid
conflicts between compression and refresh, make sure you set `compress_after` to
to a larger interval than the `start_offset` of your
[refresh policy](/api/latest/continuous-aggregates/add_continuous_aggregate_policy).
</highlight>

## Enable compression on continuous aggregates
You can enable and disable compression on continuous aggregated by setting the
`compress` parameter when you alter the view.

<procedure>

### Enabling and disabling compression on continuous aggregates
1.  For an existing continuous aggregate, at the `psql` prompt, enable
 compression:
    ```sql
    ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW cagg_name set (timescaledb.compress = true);
    ```
1.  Disable compression:
    ```sql
    ALTER MATERIALIZED VIEW cagg_name set (timescaledb.compress = false);
    ```

</procedure>

Disabling compression on a continuous aggregate fails if there are 
compressed chunks associated with the continuous aggregate. In this case, you 
need to decompress the chunks, and then drop any compression policy on the 
continuous aggregate, before you disable compression. For more detailed information, see the
[decompress chunks] [decompress-chunks] section:

```sql
SELECT decompress_chunk(c, true) FROM show_chunks('cagg_name') c;
```

## Compression policies on continuous aggregates
Before  setting up a compression policy on a continuous aggregate, you should
set up a [refresh policy][refresh-policy]. The compression policy interval should be set so that
actively refreshed regions are not compressed. This is to prevent refresh
policies from failing. For example, consider a refresh policy like this:

```sql
SELECT add_continuous_aggregate_policy('cagg_name',
  start_offset => INTERVAL '30 days',
  end_offset => INTERVAL '1 day',
  schedule_interval => INTERVAL '1 hour');
```

With this kind of refresh policy, the compression policy needs the `compress_after` 
parameter greater than the `refresh_start` parameter of the continuous aggregate policy:

```sql
SELECT add_compression_policy('cagg_name', compress_after=>'45 days'::interval);
```

[compression]: /how-to-guides/compression/
[decompress-chunks]:  /how-to-guides/compression/decompress-chunks 
[refresh-policy]: /how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/refresh-policies
