README.md, before:

# README

This is the source for content for docs.timescale.com, starting with release 2.0.
All documentation for previous versions is in the deprecated repository called
[docs.timescale.com-content](https://github.com/timescale/docs.timescale.com-content).

The documentation site is statically generated with
[Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/). The source code is in a separate
repository, which pulls in content from this repository on each build.

**All files are written in standard markdown.**

## Contributing

We welcome and appreciate any help the community can provide to make
TimescaleDB's documentation better.

You can help either by opening an
[issue](https://github.com/timescale/docs/issues) with
any suggestions or bug reports, or by forking this repository, making your own
contribution, and submitting a pull request.

Before we accept any contributions, Timescale contributors need to
sign the [Contributor License Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/timescale/docs) (CLA).
By signing a CLA, we can ensure that the community is free and confident in its
ability to use your contributions.

## Docs review

Once a PR has been started for any branch, a GitHub action will attach a unique
URL to preview your changes and allow others to more effectively review your
updates. The URL will be added as a comment to your PR.

Any new commits to that PR will rebuild and be visible at the same URL.

## Main sections and tree navigation

Each major section that is incorporated into docs.timescale.com has a navigation
hierarchy governed by the appropriate `page-index.js` file and underlying
directory structure. Depending on the content you are adding or editing, you may
have to modify the `page-index.js` file that exists for that specific sub-project.

For instance, if you are adding a new function to the 'API Reference' section,
then you need to modify the `page-index.js` file inside of `api-reference` folder,
specifically at `api-reference/page-index/page-index.js`.

Most content is then held within the parent folder as defined by the hierarchy. For
instance, the **Overview** section is a parent to a number of other pages and
folders. Therefore, there is a folder in the repo for `overview` with more Markdown
files and folder inside as the hierarchy dictates.

As a general rule, every folder must have an `index.md` file inside which will
have the content and layout for the "landing page" of that parent folder.

### `page-index.js` layout

The format of this file is generally self explanatory, but the following
rules should be understood to ensure you get the results you expect.

|Key|Type|Required|Description|
|-|-|-|-|
|`href`|string|Yes|The URL segment to use for the page. If there is a corresponding Markdown file, `href` must also match the name of the Markdown file, minus the file extension.|
|`title`|string|Yes|The title of the page, used as the page name within the navigation tree|
|`type`|One of `[directory, placeholder, redirect-to-child-page]`|No|If no type is specified, the page is built as a default page, turning the corresponding Markdown file into a webpage. If the type is `directory`, the corresponding file is turned into a webpage, _and_ the page becomes a directory. `directory` pages are the exception to the rule that the page index matches the file directory structure. Child pages of `directory` pages sit on the same level as the `directory` page inside the repository. They only become children during the site build. If the type is `placeholder`, an entry is made in the navigation tree, but a Markdown file is not converted into a webpage. The Markdown file doesn't even need to exist. Rather, the corresponding page is produced programmatically upon site build. If not produced, the link in the navigation tree returns a 404. If the type is `redirect-to-child-page`, an entry is made in the navigation tree, no page is built, and the link in the navigation tree goes directly to the first child.|
|`children`|Array of page entries|No|Child pages of the current page. If the parent page's type is not `directory`, the children should be located in a directory with the same name as the parent. The parent is the `index.md` file in that directory. If the parent page's type is `directory`, the children should be located in the same directory as the parent.|
|`pageComponents`|One of `[['featured-cards'], ['content-list']]`|No|Any page that has child pages can list its children in either card or list style at the bottom of the page. Specify the desired style with this key.|

**Example**

```js
    href: "overview",
    pageComponents: ["featured-cards"],
    children: [
        {
            title: "What is time-series data?",
            href: "what-is-time-series-data",
        },
        {
            title: "Core concepts",
            href: "core-concepts",
            children : [
                {
                    title: "Hypertables & Chunks",
                    href: "hypertables-and-chunks",
                },
                {
                    title: "Scaling",
                    href: "scaling",
                },
                ...
            ],
        },
    ]
```

## Formatting and content rules

### Internal page links

None of the internal page links within these files work on GitHub inside of
the raw Markdown files that are being reviewed. Instead, the review link discussed
above should be utilized for verifying all internal links.

Internal links do not need to include the domain name, <https://docs.timescale.com>.

### External links:

Input as-is.

### Anchor tags

By default, H1, H2, H3, and H4 headings have automatically generated anchor
tags. H2 headings also show up in the Table of Contents (on the right side of
the screen on wide windows).

### Code blocks

**Command formatting**

When showing commands being entered from a command line, do not include a
character for the prompt. Do this:

```bash
some_command
```

instead of this:

```bash
some_command
```

or this:

```bash
> some_command
```

Otherwise the code highlighter may be disrupted.

**Syntax highlighting**

When using a code block, add the appropriate language identifier after the
initial three backticks to provide the appropriate highlighting on the
rendered documentation site.

Programming language samples aside, most code blocks are one of:
`bash`, `sql`, `json`.

### Partials

Partials allow you to reuse snippets of content in multiple places. All partials
live in the `_partials` top-level directory. To make a new partial, create a new
`.mdx` file. The filename must start with an underscore.

To insert the partial in another document, put an import statement in the
document. The import statement goes before the content and after any
frontmatter. For example:

`import Component from 'versionContent/_partials/_partial-name.mdx';`

`Component` can be any CamelCased name.

Where you need the partial to display, insert it as a self-closing tag:

`<Component />`

### General formatting conventions

To maintain consistency, please follow these general rules.

*   Maintain text editor width for paragraphs at 80 characters. We ask you to do
this to assist in reviewing documentation changes. When text is very wide, it
is difficult to visually see where text has changed within a paragraph and keeping
a narrow width on text assists in making PRs easier to review. **Most editors such
as Visual Studio Code have settings to do this visually.**
*   Most links should be reference-style links where the link address is at the
bottom of the page. The two exceptions are:
    *   Links within highlight blocks (Note, Important, or Warning). These must be inline links for now
    *   Links to anchors on the same page as the link itself.
*   All functions, commands and standalone function arguments (ex. `SELECT`,
`time_bucket`) should be set as inline code within backticks ("\`command\`").
*   Functions should not be written with parentheses unless the function is
being written with arguments within the parentheses.
*   "PostgreSQL" is the way to write the elephant database name, rather than
"Postgres." "TimescaleDB" refers to the database, "Timescale" refers to the
company.
*   Use backticks when referring to the object of a user interface action.
For example: Click `Get started` to proceed with the tutorial.

### Callout and highlight blocks

To create a callout around a paragraph of text, wrap it with the following custom
React component tag. **Reminder**, any links within the callout text MUST have
inline link styles.

The `type` can currently support a value of `"note"`, `"warning"`,
`"important"`, `"deprecation"` or `"cloud"`". `cloud` produces a Cloud callout
for content specifically referring to Timescale Cloud.

```html
<highlight type="note">
Callout text goes here...

Example link style would [look like this](http://example.com/)
</highlight>
```

### Tags

You can use tags to indicate links to downloadable files, or to indicate
metadata about functions. Available tags:

*   Download tags: `<tag type="download">Markdown link to download</tag>`
*   Experimental tags: `<tag type="experimental" content="Experimental" />` or
    `<tag type="experimental-toolkit" content="Experimental" />`
*   Toolkit tag: `<tag type="toolkit" content="Toolkit" />`
*   Community tag: `<tag type="community" content="Community" />`

### Procedures

Procedures are used to indicate a sequence of steps. For syntax, see [the
procedure example](./_procedure-block.md).

### Optional label

Used to indicate an optional step within a procedure. Syntax: `<Optional />`

### Multi-code blocks

Multi-code blocks are code blocks with a language or OS selector. For syntax,
see [the multi-code-block example](./_multi-code-block.md).

### Tabs

Tabs can be used to display content that differs based on a user selection. The
syntax is:

```md
<Tabs label="Description of section, used for accessibility">

<Tab title="Title that is displayed on first tab">

Content goes here

</Tab>

<Tab title="Title that is displayed on second tab">

Content goes here

</Tab>

</Tabs>
```

Note that spacing is important.

### Editing troubleshooting sections

Troubleshooting pages are not written as whole Markdown files, but are
programmatically assembled from troubleshooting entries in the
`_troubleshooting` folder. Each entry describes a single troubleshooting case
and its solution, and contains the following frontmatter:

|Key|Type|Required|Description|
|-|-|-|-|
|`title`|string|Yes|The title of the troubleshooting entry, displayed as a heading above it|
|`section`|the literal string `troubleshooting`|Yes|Must be `troubleshooting`, used to identify troubleshooting entries during site build|
|`products` or `topics`|array of strings|Yes (can have either or both, but must have at least one)|The products or topics related to the entry. The entry will show up on the troubleshooting pages for the listed products and topics.|
|`errors`|object of form `{language: string, message: string}`|No|The error, if any, related to the troubleshooting entry. Displayed as a code block right underneath the title. `language` is the programming language to use for syntax highlighting.|
|`keywords`|array of strings|No|These are displayed at the bottom of every troubleshooting page. Each keyword links to a collection of all pages associated with that keyword.|
|`tags`|array of strings|No|Concepts, actions, or things associated with the troubleshooting entry. These are not displayed in the UI, but they affect the calculation of related pages.|

Beneath the frontmatter, describe the error and its solution in normal Markdown.
You can also use any other components allowed within the docs site.

The entry shows up on the troubleshooting pages for its associated products and
topics. If the page doesn't already exist, add an entry for it in the page
index, setting `type` to `placeholder`. For more information, see the section on
[page index layout](#page-indexjs-layout).

### Editing the API section

There is a specific format for the API section which consists of:

*   **Function name** with empty parentheses (if function takes arguments). Ex. `add_dimension()`
*   A brief, specific description of the function
*   Any warnings necessary
*   **Required Arguments**
    *   A table with columns for "Name," "Type," and "Description"
*   **Optional Arguments**
    *   A table with columns for "Name," "Type," and "Description"
*   Any specific instructions about the arguments, including valid types
*   **Sample Usage**
    *   One or two literal examples of the function being used to demonstrate argument syntax.

See the API file to get an idea.

Commit message:

Update instructions for partials (#1981)
We discovered that the namespace for partials is global across all MDX
files. Change the instructions for recommended partial naming to prevent
name clashes.

README.md, after:

# README

This is the source for content for docs.timescale.com, starting with release 2.0.
All documentation for previous versions is in the deprecated repository called
[docs.timescale.com-content](https://github.com/timescale/docs.timescale.com-content).

The documentation site is statically generated with
[Gatsby](https://www.gatsbyjs.com/). The source code is in a separate
repository, which pulls in content from this repository on each build.

**All files are written in standard markdown.**

## Contributing

We welcome and appreciate any help the community can provide to make
TimescaleDB's documentation better.

You can help either by opening an
[issue](https://github.com/timescale/docs/issues) with
any suggestions or bug reports, or by forking this repository, making your own
contribution, and submitting a pull request.

Before we accept any contributions, Timescale contributors need to
sign the [Contributor License Agreement](https://cla-assistant.io/timescale/docs) (CLA).
By signing a CLA, we can ensure that the community is free and confident in its
ability to use your contributions.

## Docs review

Once a PR has been started for any branch, a GitHub action will attach a unique
URL to preview your changes and allow others to more effectively review your
updates. The URL will be added as a comment to your PR.

Any new commits to that PR will rebuild and be visible at the same URL.

## Main sections and tree navigation

Each major section that is incorporated into docs.timescale.com has a navigation
hierarchy governed by the appropriate `page-index.js` file and underlying
directory structure. Depending on the content you are adding or editing, you may
have to modify the `page-index.js` file that exists for that specific sub-project.

For instance, if you are adding a new function to the 'API Reference' section,
then you need to modify the `page-index.js` file inside of `api-reference` folder,
specifically at `api-reference/page-index/page-index.js`.

Most content is then held within the parent folder as defined by the hierarchy. For
instance, the **Overview** section is a parent to a number of other pages and
folders. Therefore, there is a folder in the repo for `overview` with more Markdown
files and folder inside as the hierarchy dictates.

As a general rule, every folder must have an `index.md` file inside which will
have the content and layout for the "landing page" of that parent folder.

### `page-index.js` layout

The format of this file is generally self explanatory, but the following
rules should be understood to ensure you get the results you expect.

|Key|Type|Required|Description|
|-|-|-|-|
|`href`|string|Yes|The URL segment to use for the page. If there is a corresponding Markdown file, `href` must also match the name of the Markdown file, minus the file extension.|
|`title`|string|Yes|The title of the page, used as the page name within the navigation tree|
|`type`|One of `[directory, placeholder, redirect-to-child-page]`|No|If no type is specified, the page is built as a default page, turning the corresponding Markdown file into a webpage. If the type is `directory`, the corresponding file is turned into a webpage, _and_ the page becomes a directory. `directory` pages are the exception to the rule that the page index matches the file directory structure. Child pages of `directory` pages sit on the same level as the `directory` page inside the repository. They only become children during the site build. If the type is `placeholder`, an entry is made in the navigation tree, but a Markdown file is not converted into a webpage. The Markdown file doesn't even need to exist. Rather, the corresponding page is produced programmatically upon site build. If not produced, the link in the navigation tree returns a 404. If the type is `redirect-to-child-page`, an entry is made in the navigation tree, no page is built, and the link in the navigation tree goes directly to the first child.|
|`children`|Array of page entries|No|Child pages of the current page. If the parent page's type is not `directory`, the children should be located in a directory with the same name as the parent. The parent is the `index.md` file in that directory. If the parent page's type is `directory`, the children should be located in the same directory as the parent.|
|`pageComponents`|One of `[['featured-cards'], ['content-list']]`|No|Any page that has child pages can list its children in either card or list style at the bottom of the page. Specify the desired style with this key.|

**Example**

```js
    href: "overview",
    pageComponents: ["featured-cards"],
    children: [
        {
            title: "What is time-series data?",
            href: "what-is-time-series-data",
        },
        {
            title: "Core concepts",
            href: "core-concepts",
            children : [
                {
                    title: "Hypertables & Chunks",
                    href: "hypertables-and-chunks",
                },
                {
                    title: "Scaling",
                    href: "scaling",
                },
                ...
            ],
        },
    ]
```

## Formatting and content rules

### Internal page links

None of the internal page links within these files work on GitHub inside of
the raw Markdown files that are being reviewed. Instead, the review link discussed
above should be utilized for verifying all internal links.

Internal links do not need to include the domain name, <https://docs.timescale.com>.

### External links:

Input as-is.

### Anchor tags

By default, H1, H2, H3, and H4 headings have automatically generated anchor
tags. H2 headings also show up in the Table of Contents (on the right side of
the screen on wide windows).

### Code blocks

**Command formatting**

When showing commands being entered from a command line, do not include a
character for the prompt. Do this:

```bash
some_command
```

instead of this:

```bash
some_command
```

or this:

```bash
> some_command
```

Otherwise the code highlighter may be disrupted.

**Syntax highlighting**

When using a code block, add the appropriate language identifier after the
initial three backticks to provide the appropriate highlighting on the
rendered documentation site.

Programming language samples aside, most code blocks are one of:
`bash`, `sql`, `json`.

### Partials

Partials allow you to reuse snippets of content in multiple places. All partials
live in the `_partials` top-level directory. To make a new partial, create a new
`.mdx` file. The filename must start with an underscore.

To insert the partial in another document, put an import statement in the
document. The import statement goes before the content and after any
frontmatter. For example:

`import PartialName from 'versionContent/_partials/_partial-name.mdx';`

`PartialName` can be any CamelCased name, but it is recommended to use the
CamelCased filename to prevent name clashes, because partial names are global
across all MDX files.

Where you need the partial to display, insert it as a self-closing tag:

`<PartialName />`

### General formatting conventions

To maintain consistency, please follow these general rules.

*   Maintain text editor width for paragraphs at 80 characters. We ask you to do
this to assist in reviewing documentation changes. When text is very wide, it
is difficult to visually see where text has changed within a paragraph and keeping
a narrow width on text assists in making PRs easier to review. **Most editors such
as Visual Studio Code have settings to do this visually.**
*   Most links should be reference-style links where the link address is at the
bottom of the page. The two exceptions are:
    *   Links within highlight blocks (Note, Important, or Warning). These must be inline links for now
    *   Links to anchors on the same page as the link itself.
*   All functions, commands and standalone function arguments (ex. `SELECT`,
`time_bucket`) should be set as inline code within backticks ("\`command\`").
*   Functions should not be written with parentheses unless the function is
being written with arguments within the parentheses.
*   "PostgreSQL" is the way to write the elephant database name, rather than
"Postgres." "TimescaleDB" refers to the database, "Timescale" refers to the
company.
*   Use backticks when referring to the object of a user interface action.
For example: Click `Get started` to proceed with the tutorial.

### Callout and highlight blocks

To create a callout around a paragraph of text, wrap it with the following custom
React component tag. **Reminder**, any links within the callout text MUST have
inline link styles.

The `type` can currently support a value of `"note"`, `"warning"`,
`"important"`, `"deprecation"` or `"cloud"`". `cloud` produces a Cloud callout
for content specifically referring to Timescale Cloud.

```html
<highlight type="note">
Callout text goes here...

Example link style would [look like this](http://example.com/)
</highlight>
```

### Tags

You can use tags to indicate links to downloadable files, or to indicate
metadata about functions. Available tags:

*   Download tags: `<tag type="download">Markdown link to download</tag>`
*   Experimental tags: `<tag type="experimental" content="Experimental" />` or
    `<tag type="experimental-toolkit" content="Experimental" />`
*   Toolkit tag: `<tag type="toolkit" content="Toolkit" />`
*   Community tag: `<tag type="community" content="Community" />`

### Procedures

Procedures are used to indicate a sequence of steps. For syntax, see [the
procedure example](./_procedure-block.md).

### Optional label

Used to indicate an optional step within a procedure. Syntax: `<Optional />`

### Multi-code blocks

Multi-code blocks are code blocks with a language or OS selector. For syntax,
see [the multi-code-block example](./_multi-code-block.md).

### Tabs

Tabs can be used to display content that differs based on a user selection. The
syntax is:

```md
<Tabs label="Description of section, used for accessibility">

<Tab title="Title that is displayed on first tab">

Content goes here

</Tab>

<Tab title="Title that is displayed on second tab">

Content goes here

</Tab>

</Tabs>
```

Note that spacing is important.

### Editing troubleshooting sections

Troubleshooting pages are not written as whole Markdown files, but are
programmatically assembled from troubleshooting entries in the
`_troubleshooting` folder. Each entry describes a single troubleshooting case
and its solution, and contains the following frontmatter:

|Key|Type|Required|Description|
|-|-|-|-|
|`title`|string|Yes|The title of the troubleshooting entry, displayed as a heading above it|
|`section`|the literal string `troubleshooting`|Yes|Must be `troubleshooting`, used to identify troubleshooting entries during site build|
|`products` or `topics`|array of strings|Yes (can have either or both, but must have at least one)|The products or topics related to the entry. The entry will show up on the troubleshooting pages for the listed products and topics.|
|`errors`|object of form `{language: string, message: string}`|No|The error, if any, related to the troubleshooting entry. Displayed as a code block right underneath the title. `language` is the programming language to use for syntax highlighting.|
|`keywords`|array of strings|No|These are displayed at the bottom of every troubleshooting page. Each keyword links to a collection of all pages associated with that keyword.|
|`tags`|array of strings|No|Concepts, actions, or things associated with the troubleshooting entry. These are not displayed in the UI, but they affect the calculation of related pages.|

Beneath the frontmatter, describe the error and its solution in normal Markdown.
You can also use any other components allowed within the docs site.

The entry shows up on the troubleshooting pages for its associated products and
topics. If the page doesn't already exist, add an entry for it in the page
index, setting `type` to `placeholder`. For more information, see the section on
[page index layout](#page-indexjs-layout).

### Editing the API section

There is a specific format for the API section which consists of:

*   **Function name** with empty parentheses (if function takes arguments). Ex. `add_dimension()`
*   A brief, specific description of the function
*   Any warnings necessary
*   **Required Arguments**
    *   A table with columns for "Name," "Type," and "Description"
*   **Optional Arguments**
    *   A table with columns for "Name," "Type," and "Description"
*   Any specific instructions about the arguments, including valid types
*   **Sample Usage**
    *   One or two literal examples of the function being used to demonstrate argument syntax.

See the API file to get an idea.
