getting-started/add-data.md, before:

# Add time-series data
To explore TimescaleDB's features, you need some sample data. This tutorial
provides real-time stock trade data, also known as tick data, from
[Twelve Data][twelve-data].

## About the dataset
The dataset contains second-by-second stock-trade data for the top 100
most-traded symbols, in a hypertable named `stocks_real_time`. It also includes
a separate table of company symbols and company names, in a regular PostgreSQL
table named `company`.

The dataset is updated on a nightly basis and contains data from the last four
weeks, typically ~8 million rows of data. Stock trades are recorded in real-time
Monday through Friday, typically during normal trading hours of the New York Stock
Exchange (9:30&nbsp;AM - 4:00&nbsp;PM EST).

### Table details

`stocks_real_time`: contains stock data. Includes stock price quotes at every
second during trading hours.

|Field|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|time|timestamptz|Timestamp column incrementing second by second|
|symbol|text|Symbols representing a company, mapped to company names in the `company` table|
|price|double precision|Stock quote price for a company at the given timestamp|
|day_volume|int|Number of shares traded each day, NULL values indicate the market is closed|

`company`: contains a mapping for symbols to company names.

|Field|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|symbol|text|the symbol representing a company name|
|name|text|Corresponding company name|

## Ingest the dataset
To ingest data into the tables that you created, you need to download the
dataset and copy the data to your database.

<procedure>

### Ingesting the dataset

1.  Download the `real_time_stock_data.zip` file. The file contains two `.csv`
    files; one with company information, and one with real-time stock trades for
    the past month. Download:
    <tag
    type="download">[real_time_stock_data.zip](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/downloads/get-started/real_time_stock_data.zip)
    </tag>

1.  In a new terminal window, run this command to unzip the `.csv` files:

    ```bash
    unzip real_time_stock_data.zip
    ```

1.  At the `psql` prompt, use the `COPY` command to transfer data into your
    TimescleDB instance . If the `.csv` files aren't in your current directory,
    specify the file paths in the following commands:

    ```sql
    \COPY stocks_real_time from './tutorial_sample_tick.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER;
    ```

    ```sql
    \COPY company from './tutorial_sample_company.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER;
    ```

    Because there are millions of rows of data, the `COPY` process may take a few
    minutes depending on your internet connection and local client resources.

<highlight type="note">
If you're using a Docker container, add the data files to your container before
copying them into your database.

To add files to your container:

```bash
docker cp tutorial_sample_tick.csv timescaledb:/tutorial_sample_tick.csv
docker cp tutorial_sample_company.csv timescaledb:/tutorial_sample_company.csv
```

</highlight>

</procedure>

## Next steps
Now that you have data in your TimescaleDB instance, learn how to [query the
data][query-data].

[twelve-data]: https://twelvedata.com/
[query-data]: /query-data/

Commit message:

Add websocket tutorial (#1101)
* Add websocket tutorial

* Formatting

* Procedure formatting and readability

* Apply minor changes from code review

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

* Sample code fix

* Apply minor fixes from review

Co-authored-by: Ryan Booz <ryan@timescale.com>

* Move sentence above block

* Moving out section from procedure

* Add links to the websocket tutorial

* Typo fix

* Typo

* Apply quick suggestions from review

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

* Minor fix

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

* Fix code highlight

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Co-authored-by: Ryan Booz <ryan@timescale.com>

getting-started/add-data.md, after:

# Add time-series data
To explore TimescaleDB's features, you need some sample data. This tutorial
provides real-time stock trade data, also known as tick data, from
[Twelve Data][twelve-data].

## About the dataset
The dataset contains second-by-second stock-trade data for the top 100
most-traded symbols, in a hypertable named `stocks_real_time`. It also includes
a separate table of company symbols and company names, in a regular PostgreSQL
table named `company`.

The dataset is updated on a nightly basis and contains data from the last four
weeks, typically ~8 million rows of data. Stock trades are recorded in real-time
Monday through Friday, typically during normal trading hours of the New York Stock
Exchange (9:30&nbsp;AM - 4:00&nbsp;PM EST).

<highlight type="note">
In case you want to ingest real-time data, instead of sample data,
read the tutorial
[Ingest real-time financial websocket data](https://docs.timescale.com/timescaledb/latest/tutorials/ingest-real-time-websocket-data)
and ingest data directly from the Twelve Data financial API.
</highlight>

### Table details

`stocks_real_time`: contains stock data. Includes stock price quotes at every
second during trading hours.

|Field|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|time|timestamptz|Timestamp column incrementing second by second|
|symbol|text|Symbols representing a company, mapped to company names in the `company` table|
|price|double precision|Stock quote price for a company at the given timestamp|
|day_volume|int|Number of shares traded each day, NULL values indicate the market is closed|

`company`: contains a mapping for symbols to company names.

|Field|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|symbol|text|the symbol representing a company name|
|name|text|Corresponding company name|

## Ingest the dataset
To ingest data into the tables that you created, you need to download the
dataset and copy the data to your database.

<procedure>

### Ingesting the dataset

1.  Download the `real_time_stock_data.zip` file. The file contains two `.csv`
    files; one with company information, and one with real-time stock trades for
    the past month. Download:
    <tag
    type="download">[real_time_stock_data.zip](https://assets.timescale.com/docs/downloads/get-started/real_time_stock_data.zip)
    </tag>

1.  In a new terminal window, run this command to unzip the `.csv` files:

    ```bash
    unzip real_time_stock_data.zip
    ```

1.  At the `psql` prompt, use the `COPY` command to transfer data into your
    TimescleDB instance . If the `.csv` files aren't in your current directory,
    specify the file paths in the following commands:

    ```sql
    \COPY stocks_real_time from './tutorial_sample_tick.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER;
    ```

    ```sql
    \COPY company from './tutorial_sample_company.csv' DELIMITER ',' CSV HEADER;
    ```

    Because there are millions of rows of data, the `COPY` process may take a few
    minutes depending on your internet connection and local client resources.

<highlight type="note">
If you're using a Docker container, add the data files to your container before
copying them into your database.

To add files to your container:

```bash
docker cp tutorial_sample_tick.csv timescaledb:/tutorial_sample_tick.csv
docker cp tutorial_sample_company.csv timescaledb:/tutorial_sample_company.csv
```

</highlight>

</procedure>

## Next steps
Now that you have data in your TimescaleDB instance, learn how to [query the
data][query-data].

[twelve-data]: https://twelvedata.com/
[query-data]: /query-data/
