getting-started/next-steps.md, before:

---
title: Next steps
excerpt: Continue exploring TimescaleDB
keywords: [data migration, ingest, visualize, connect]
---

# Next steps

Now that you've had some hands-on experience with TimescaleDB, hopefully you can
see how many of Timescale's powerful features can help you manage your
time-series data while easily mining for deeper insights. 💥

To continue your exploration of TimescaleDB, here are some valuable next steps
to help you on your way to becoming a time-series superhero.

## Migrate data to TimescaleDB

One of the first things most developers want to do is look at the data they're
currently working with in the database. There are a number of methods for
importing data that you currently have, whether it exists in another database
or a .csv file.

Look at the [how-to guide on Migrating Data][migrate-data] for more help and
suggestions of where to start.

## Ingest real-time data

Working with sample data can teach you a lot about TimescaleDB, but you might
like to try ingesting market data in real time. Check out our
related tutorial
[Ingest real-time financial websocket data][ingest-real-time] and continue
ingesting data directly from the [Twelve Data][twelve-data] financial API.

## Visualize your data

Time-series data is perfectly suited for viewing with tools like Grafana,
Tableau, and Power BI, to name a few. Once you can see trends and query
for specific data features using relational data, a whole new world of insights
begins to open up.

Check out the [growing set of visualization tutorials][visualize-data], showing
you how to become a Grafana Superhero and connect to other third party
visualization tools.

## Connect to your data with code

While this may be the century of big data, the greatest power often happens in
connected applications that help turn data into value to users. Using
time-series data effectively means you need to get your code connected and
working as efficiently as possible.

See the [growing list of language Quick Starts][connect-with-code] to get you up
and running with TimescaleDB, including best practices.

## Examine other sample datasets

Sometimes it's just easier to explore further by having access to additional
datasets. We have you covered! 🙌

Have a look some of the [other datasets][sample-data] provided for you to dig
deeper into time-series data and data analysis using TimescaleDB.

[connect-with-code]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/quick-start/
[ingest-real-time]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/tutorials/ingest-real-time-websocket-data
[migrate-data]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/migrate-data/
[sample-data]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/tutorials/sample-datasets/
[twelve-data]: https://twelvedata.com/
[visualize-data]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/tutorials/grafana/

Commit message:

[Launch] Cloud-centric docs, phase 1 (#2085)
Signed-off-by: Charis <26616127+charislam@users.noreply.github.com>
Signed-off-by: Rajakavitha Kodhandapani <krajakavitha@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Co-authored-by: loquacity <github@lanabrindley.com>
Co-authored-by: Rajakavitha Kodhandapani <krajakavitha@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Yannis Roussos <iroussos@gmail.com>

getting-started/next-steps.md, after:

---
title: Next steps
excerpt: Continue exploring Timescale
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [data migration, ingest, visualize, connect]
---

# Next steps

Now that you've had some hands-on experience with Timescale, hopefully you can
see how many of Timescale's powerful features can help you manage your
time-series data while easily mining for deeper insights. 💥

To continue your exploration of Timescale, here are some valuable next steps
to help you on your way to becoming a time-series superhero.

## Migrate data to Timescale

One of the first things most developers want to do is look at the data they're
currently working with in the database. There are a number of methods for
importing data that you currently have, whether it exists in another database
or a .csv file.

Look at the [how-to guide on Migrating Data][migrate-data] for more help and
suggestions of where to start.

## Ingest real-time data

Working with sample data can teach you a lot about Timescale, but you might like
to try ingesting market data in real time. Check out the related tutorial to
[Ingest real-time financial websocket data][ingest-real-time]
and continue ingesting data directly from the [Twelve Data][twelve-data]
financial API.

## Visualize your data

Time-series data is perfectly suited for viewing with tools like Grafana,
Tableau, and Power BI, to name a few. Once you can see trends and query
for specific data features using relational data, a whole new world of insights
begins to open up.

Check out the [growing set of visualization tutorials][visualize-data], showing
you how to become a Grafana Superhero and connect to other third party
visualization tools.

## Connect to your data with code

While this may be the century of big data, the greatest power often happens in
connected applications that help turn data into value to users. Using
time-series data effectively means you need to get your code connected and
working as efficiently as possible.

See the [growing list of language Quick Starts][connect-with-code] to get you up
and running with Timescale, including best practices.

## Examine other sample datasets

Sometimes it's just easier to explore further by having access to additional
datasets. We have you covered! 🙌

Have a look some of the [other datasets][sample-data] provided for you to dig
deeper into time-series data and data analysis using Timescale.

[connect-with-code]: /quick-start/:currentVersion:/
[ingest-real-time]: /tutorials/:currentVersion:/ingest-real-time-websocket-data
[migrate-data]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/
[sample-data]: /tutorials/:currentVersion:/sample-datasets/
[twelve-data]: https://twelvedata.com/
[visualize-data]: /tutorials/:currentVersion:/grafana/
