getting-started/tables-hypertables.md, before:

---
title: Tables and hypertables
excerpt: Create tables and hypertables in your Timescale account
products: [cloud]
keywords: [hypertables, create]
layout_components: [next_prev_large]
content_group: Getting started
---

import HypertableIntro from "versionContent/_partials/_hypertables-intro.mdx";

# Tables and hypertables

<HypertableIntro />

Databases in are made up of tables that contain your data. In PostgreSQL, these
tables are relational, so the data in one table relates to the data in another
table. In Timescale, you use regular PostregSQL relational tables, in addition
to special time-series hypertables.

Hypertables are designed specifically for time-series data, so they have a few
special qualities that makes them different to a regular PostgreSQL table. A
hypertable is always partitioned on time, but can also be partitioned on
additional columns as well. The other special thing about hypertables is that
they are broken down into smaller tables called chunks.

In this section, you create a hypertables for time-series data, and regular
PostgreSQL tables for relational data. You also create an index on your
hypertable, which isn't required, but can help your queries run more efficiently.
One of the other special qualities of hypertables is that you can also create
indexes later on, if you need to.

For more information, see
[the hypertables section][hypertable-how-to].

## Create your first hypertable

<Procedure>

### Creating your first hypertable

1.  At the command prompt, use the `psql` connection string from the cheat sheet
    you downloaded to connect to your database.
1.  Create a regular PostgreSQL table to store the real-time stock trade data
    using `CREATE TABLE`:

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE stocks_real_time (
      time TIMESTAMPTZ NOT NULL,
      symbol TEXT NOT NULL,
      price DOUBLE PRECISION NULL,
      day_volume INT NULL
    );
    ```

1.  Convert the regular table into a hypertable partitioned on the `time` column
    using the `create_hypertable()` function provided by Timescale. You must
    provide the name of the table (`stocks_real_time`) and the column in that
    table that holds the timestamp data to use for partitioning (`time`):

    ```sql
    SELECT create_hypertable('stocks_real_time','time');
    ```

1.  Create an index to support efficient queries on the `symbol` and `time`
    columns:

    ```sql
    CREATE INDEX ix_symbol_time ON stocks_real_time (symbol, time DESC);
    ```

</Procedure>

## Create regular PostgreSQL tables for relational data

Timescale isn't just for hypertables. When you have other relational data that
enhances your time-series data, you can create regular PostgreSQL tables just as
you would normally. For this dataset, there is one other table of data called
`company`.

<Procedure>

### Creating regular PostgreSQL tables

1.  Add a table to store the company name and symbol for the stock trade data:

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE company (
      symbol TEXT NOT NULL,
      name TEXT NOT NULL
    );
    ```

1.  You now have two tables within your Timescale database. One hypertable named
    `stocks_real_time`, and one normal PostgreSQL table named `company`. You can
    check this by running this command at the `psql` prompt:

    ```sql
    \dt
    ```

    This command returns information about your tables, like this:

    ```sql
                       List of relations
     Schema |       Name       | Type  |   Owner
    --------+------------------+-------+-----------
     public | company          | table | tsdbadmin
     public | stocks_real_time | table | tsdbadmin
    (2 rows)
    ```

</Procedure>

<Video url="https://www.youtube.com/embed/MpMw7yIjauI"></Video>

[hypertable-how-to]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/hypertables/

Commit message:

GSG Updates - Master PR (#2577)
* Remove videos

* guide v tutorial

* elide procedure

* rewrite overview

* minor edit to partial

* Update connecting partials

* fix bad link

* remove additional step in connect partial

* suppress line numbers trial

* Add VSCode snippet

* fix code block snippet

* Update code blocks for hypertables section

* fix procedure numbering

* use backslash html entity

* suppress copy and line numbers for data

* suppress line numbers copy for queries

* suppress line numbers copy for aggregation

* HTML code for backslash

* fix slash problem

* escape slashes. again.

* edits per feedback

getting-started/tables-hypertables.md, after:

---
title: Tables and hypertables
excerpt: Create tables and hypertables in your Timescale account
products: [cloud]
keywords: [hypertables, create]
layout_components: [next_prev_large]
content_group: Getting started
---

import HypertableIntro from "versionContent/_partials/_hypertables-intro.mdx";

# Tables and hypertables

<HypertableIntro />

Databases in are made up of tables that contain your data. In PostgreSQL, these
tables are relational, so the data in one table relates to the data in another
table. In Timescale, you use regular PostregSQL relational tables, in addition
to special time-series hypertables.

Hypertables are designed specifically for time-series data, so they have a few
special qualities that makes them different to a regular PostgreSQL table. A
hypertable is always partitioned on time, but can also be partitioned on
additional columns as well. The other special thing about hypertables is that
they are broken down into smaller tables called chunks.

In this section, you create a hypertable for time-series data, and regular
PostgreSQL tables for relational data. You also create an index on your
hypertable, which isn't required, but can help your queries run more efficiently.
One of the other special qualities of hypertables is that you can also create
indexes later on, if you need to.

For more information, see
[the hypertables section][hypertable-how-to].

## Create your first hypertable

For the financial dataset used in this guide, create a hypertable named
`stocks_real_time` that contains second-by-second stock-trade data for the top
100 most-traded symbols.

<Procedure>

### Creating your first hypertable

1.  At the command prompt, use the `psql` connection string from the cheat sheet
    you downloaded to connect to your database.
1.  Create a regular PostgreSQL table to store the real-time stock trade data
    using `CREATE TABLE`:

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE stocks_real_time (
      time TIMESTAMPTZ NOT NULL,
      symbol TEXT NOT NULL,
      price DOUBLE PRECISION NULL,
      day_volume INT NULL
    );
    ```

1.  Convert the regular table into a hypertable partitioned on the `time` column
    using the `create_hypertable()` function provided by Timescale. You must
    provide the name of the table (`stocks_real_time`) and the column in that
    table that holds the timestamp data to use for partitioning (`time`):

    <CodeBlock canCopy={true} showLineNumbers={false} children={`
    SELECT create_hypertable('stocks_real_time','time');
    `} />

1.  Create an index to support efficient queries on the `symbol` and `time`
    columns:

    <CodeBlock canCopy={true} showLineNumbers={false} children={`
    CREATE INDEX ix_symbol_time ON stocks_real_time (symbol, time DESC);
    `} />

</Procedure>

## Create regular PostgreSQL tables for relational data

Timescale isn't just for hypertables. When you have other relational data that
enhances your time-series data, you can create regular PostgreSQL tables just as
you would normally. For this dataset, there is one other table of data called
`company`.

<Procedure>

### Creating regular PostgreSQL tables

1.  Add a table to store the company name and symbol for the stock trade data:

    ```sql
    CREATE TABLE company (
      symbol TEXT NOT NULL,
      name TEXT NOT NULL
    );
    ```

1.  You now have two tables within your Timescale database. One hypertable named
    `stocks_real_time`, and one normal PostgreSQL table named `company`. You can
    check this by running this command at the `psql` prompt:

    <CodeBlock canCopy={true} showLineNumbers={false} children={`
    \/dt
    `} />

    This command returns information about your tables, like this:

    <CodeBlock canCopy={false} showLineNumbers={true} children={`
                           List of relations
     Schema |       Name       | Type  |   Owner
    --------+------------------+-------+-----------
     public | company          | table | tsdbadmin
     public | stocks_real_time | table | tsdbadmin
    (2 rows)
    `} />

</Procedure>

[hypertable-how-to]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/hypertables/
