promscale/tobs/tobs.md, before:

---
title: Install the observability stack (tobs) for Kubernetes
excerpt: Install tobs
product: promscale
keywords: [analytics, Kubernetes]
tags: [install, k8s]
related_pages:
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/recommendations/resource-recomm
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/send-data/
---

import PromscaleConfigurationRecommendations from 'versionContent/_partials/_promscale-configuration-recommendations.mdx';

# Install the observability stack (tobs) for Kubernetes
The observability stack (tobs), is a pre-packaged distribution of observability
tools and dashboard interfaces which can be installed on any existing Kubernetes
cluster. It includes many of the most popular open-source observability tools
including Prometheus, Grafana, TimescaleDB, and [other components][stack-components].
Together, these provide a maintainable solution to analyze the traffic on the
server and identify any potential problems with a deployment. You can use Helm
charts to configure and update [tobs][tobs] deployments. 

 
## Before you begin
*  Understand the [resource requirements][resource-requirements] for your cluster.
*  [Deploy a Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-cluster]. 
*  Install [kubectl][kubectl] in your local environment and
   [connect to your cluster][connect-to-cluster].
*  Install [Helm 3][helm] in your local machine. 

## Installing Promscale with tobs 
The observability stack (tobs), eliminates the need to maintain configuration
details for each of the applications, while providing observability for the
applications running on your cluster. You can deploy tobs on your cluster and
access it locally with `kubectl` [Port-Forward][port-forward].

<procedure>

1.  Create the `observability` namespace on your cluster:
    ```bash
    kubectl create namespace observability
    ```   
1. Install a certificate manager for your cluster:
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.8.0/cert-manager.yaml
   ```
1.  Using Helm, deploy the tobs release labeled `tobs` in the `observability`
    namespace on your cluster:
    ```bash
    helm repo add timescale https://charts.timescale.com/
    helm repo update
    helm install --wait tobs timescale/tobs --namespace observability
    ```
1.  Verify that the Prometheus Operator has been deployed to your cluster and
    its components are running and ready by checking the pods in the
    `observability` namespace:
    ```bash
    kubectl -n observability get pods
    ```
    
</procedure>

### Accessing the components with port-forward

<procedure>

You can use `kubectl` [port-forward][port-forward] to open a connection to a
service, then access the interface of the service by entering the corresponding
ports in your web browser.

1.  List the services running in the `observability` namespace and review their
    respective ports:
    ```bash
    kubectl -n observability get svc
    ```
1. To access the **Prometheus** interface at the address `127.0.0.1:9090` in
   your web browser, use:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n observability \
   port-forward \
   svc/tobs-kube-prometheus-prometheus \
   9090
   ```
1. To access the **Alertmanager** interface at the address `127.0.0.1:9093` in
   your web browser, use:
   ```bash
      kubectl -n observability \
      port-forward \
      svc/tobs-kube-prometheus-alertmanager  \
      9093
   ```   
1. To access the **Grafana** interface at the address `127.0.0.1:8081` in your
   web browser, use:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n observability \
   port-forward \
   svc/tobs-grafana  \
   8081:80
   ```

</procedure>

When accessing the Grafana interface, log in as `admin`. You can get the
`password` using:
   ```bash
   kubectl get secret --namespace monitoring tobs-grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo
   ```
   The Grafana dashboards are accessible at `Dashboards > Manage` from the left navigation bar.

## Database configurations

<PromscaleConfigurationRecommendations />


[kubernetes-cluster]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/
[helm]: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
[kubectl]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl
[connect-to-cluster]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/#verify-kubectl-configuration
[port-forward]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#port-forward).
[tobs]: https://github.com/timescale/tobs
[resource-requirements]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/recommendations/resource-recomm/ 
[stack-components]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/tobs/about/

Commit message:

added a note about cert-manager

promscale/tobs/tobs.md, after:

---
title: Install the observability stack (tobs) for Kubernetes
excerpt: Install tobs
product: promscale
keywords: [analytics, Kubernetes]
tags: [install, k8s]
related_pages:
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/recommendations/resource-recomm
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/send-data/
---

# Install the observability stack (tobs) for Kubernetes
The observability stack (tobs), is a pre-packaged distribution of observability
tools and dashboard interfaces which can be installed on any existing Kubernetes
cluster. It includes many of the most popular open-source observability tools
including Prometheus, Grafana, TimescaleDB, and [other components][stack-components].
Together, these provide a unified solution to analyze the traffic on the
server and identify any potential problems with a deployment. You can use Helm
charts to configure and update [tobs][tobs] deployments. 

 
## Before you begin
*  Understand the [resource requirements][resource-requirements] for your cluster.
*  Ensure that you have a [Kubernetes Cluster][kubernetes-cluster]. 
*  Install [kubectl][kubectl] in your local environment and [connect to your cluster][connect-to-cluster].
*  Install [Helm 3][helm] in your local machine.
* Install a certificate manager for your cluster:
   ```bash
   kubectl apply -f https://github.com/cert-manager/cert-manager/releases/download/v1.8.0/cert-manager.yaml
   ```
   <highlight type="note">
   For the latest and updated instructions to install, see the [certificate manager][cert-manager-docs]documentation.
   You may choose not to install certificate manager if you plan to use tobs with opentelemetry support disabled.
   </highlight> 

## Installing Promscale with tobs 
The observability stack (tobs), eliminates the need to maintain configuration
details for each of the applications, while providing observability for the
applications running on your cluster. You can deploy tobs on your cluster and
access it locally with `kubectl` [Port-Forward][port-forward].

<procedure>

1.  Create the `observability` namespace on your cluster:
    ```bash
    kubectl create namespace observability
    ```   
1.  Using Helm, deploy the tobs release labeled `tobs` in the `observability`
    namespace on your cluster:
    ```bash
    helm repo add timescale https://charts.timescale.com/
    helm repo update
    helm install --wait tobs timescale/tobs --namespace observability
    ```
1.  Verify that all the components have been deployed to your cluster and are
    running by checking the pods in the `observability` namespace:
    ```bash
    kubectl -n observability get pods
    ```
    
</procedure>

### Accessing the interfaces with port-forward

<procedure>

You can use `kubectl` [port-forward][port-forward] to open a connection to a
service, then access the interface of the service by entering the corresponding
ports in your web browser.

1.  List the services running in the `observability` namespace and review their
    respective ports:
    ```bash
    kubectl -n observability get svc
    ```
1. To access the **Prometheus** interface at the address `127.0.0.1:9090` in
   your web browser, use:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n observability \
   port-forward \
   svc/tobs-kube-prometheus-prometheus \
   9090
   ```
1. To access the **Alertmanager** interface at the address `127.0.0.1:9093` in
   your web browser, use:
   ```bash
      kubectl -n observability \
      port-forward \
      svc/tobs-kube-prometheus-alertmanager  \
      9093
   ```   
1. To access the **Grafana** interface at the address `127.0.0.1:3000` in your
   web browser, use:
   ```bash
   kubectl -n observability \
   port-forward \
   svc/tobs-grafana  \
   3000:80
   ```

</procedure>

When accessing the Grafana interface, log in as `admin`. You can get the
`password` using:
   ```bash
   kubectl get secret --namespace observability tobs-grafana -o jsonpath="{.data.admin-password}" | base64 --decode ; echo
   ```
   The Grafana dashboards are accessible at `Dashboards > Browse` from the left navigation bar.

[kubernetes-cluster]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/setup/production-environment/
[helm]: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
[kubectl]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/#kubectl
[connect-to-cluster]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl-macos/#verify-kubectl-configuration
[port-forward]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubectl/kubectl-commands#port-forward).
[tobs]: https://github.com/timescale/tobs#tobs---the-observability-stack-for-kubernetes
[resource-requirements]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/recommendations/resource-recomm/ 
[stack-components]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/tobs/about/
[cert-manager-docs]: https://cert-manager.io/docs/installation/
