timescaledb/overview/how-does-it-compare/timescaledb-vs-nosql.md, before:

---
title: Why use TimescaleDB over NoSQL?
excerpt: TimescaleDB's advantages over NoSQL databases
keywords: [NoSQL]
tags: [compare]
---

# Why Use TimescaleDB over NoSQL?

Compared to general NoSQL databases (for example, MongoDB, Cassandra) or even
more specialized time-oriented ones (for example, InfluxDB, KairosDB),
TimescaleDB provides both qualitative and quantitative differences:

- **Normal SQL**: TimescaleDB gives you the power of standard SQL
  queries on time-series data, even at scale. Most (all?) NoSQL
  databases require learning either a new query language or using
  something that's at best "SQL-ish" (which still breaks compatibility
  with existing tools).
- **Operational simplicity**:  With TimescaleDB, you only need to manage one
  database for your relational and time-series data. Otherwise, users
  often need to silo data into two databases: a "normal" relational
  one, and a second time-series one.
- **JOINs** can be performed across relational and time-series data.
- **Query performance** is faster for a varied set
  of queries. More complex queries are often slow or full table scans
  on NoSQL databases, while some databases can't even support many
  natural queries.
- **Manage like PostgreSQL** and inherit its support for varied datatypes and
  indexes (B-tree, hash, range, BRIN, GiST, GIN).
- **Native support for geospatial data**: Data stored in TimescaleDB
  can leverage PostGIS's geometric datatypes, indexes, and queries.
- **Third-party tools**: TimescaleDB supports anything that speaks
  SQL, including BI tools like Tableau.

Commit message:

swap self-hosted and cloud sections
To make our docs more Cloud-centric, swap the self-hosted and Cloud
sections, so that Cloud docs are the 'default' and self-hosted docs
contain information that pertains solely to self-hosted TimescaleDB.

timescaledb/overview/how-does-it-compare/timescaledb-vs-nosql.md, after:

---
title: Why use TimescaleDB over NoSQL?
excerpt: TimescaleDB's advantages over NoSQL databases
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [NoSQL]
tags: [compare]
---

# Why Use TimescaleDB over NoSQL?

Compared to general NoSQL databases (for example, MongoDB, Cassandra) or even
more specialized time-oriented ones (for example, InfluxDB, KairosDB),
TimescaleDB provides both qualitative and quantitative differences:

*   **Normal SQL**: TimescaleDB gives you the power of standard SQL
  queries on time-series data, even at scale. Most (all?) NoSQL
  databases require learning either a new query language or using
  something that's at best "SQL-ish" (which still breaks compatibility
  with existing tools).
*   **Operational simplicity**:  With TimescaleDB, you only need to manage one
  database for your relational and time-series data. Otherwise, users
  often need to silo data into two databases: a "normal" relational
  one, and a second time-series one.
*   **JOINs** can be performed across relational and time-series data.
*   **Query performance** is faster for a varied set
  of queries. More complex queries are often slow or full table scans
  on NoSQL databases, while some databases can't even support many
  natural queries.
*   **Manage like PostgreSQL** and inherit its support for varied datatypes and
  indexes (B-tree, hash, range, BRIN, GiST, GIN).
*   **Native support for geospatial data**: Data stored in TimescaleDB
  can leverage PostGIS's geometric datatypes, indexes, and queries.
*   **Third-party tools**: TimescaleDB supports anything that speaks
  SQL, including BI tools like Tableau.
