mst/integrations/logging.md, before:

---
title: Logging
excerpt: Retrieve logging information on Managed Service for TimescaleDB
products: [mst]
keywords: [logging, Loggly, integration]
---

# Logging

There are a number of different ways to review logs and metrics for your Managed
Service for TimescaleDB services. You can use the native logging tool
in the web console, retrieve details logs using the Aiven CLI tool, or
integrate a third-party service, such as [SolarWinds Loggly][loggly-site].

## Native logging

To see the most recent logged events for your service, in the `Services` tab,
find the service you want to review, and check it is marked as `Running`.
Navigate to the `Logs` tab to see a constantly updated list of logged events.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
width={1375} height={944}
src="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/mst-view-logs.webp"
alt="Managed Service for TimescaleDB native logging"/>

## Dump logs to a text file with the Aiven CLI

If you want to dump your Managed Service for TimescaleDB logs to a text file or
an archive for use later on, you can use the Aiven CLI.

Sign in to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB account from the Aiven CLI tool,
and use this command to dump your logs to a text file called `tslogs.txt`:

```bash
avn service logs -S desc -f --project <project name> <service_name> > tslogs.txt
```

For more information about the Aiven CLI tool, see the
[Aiven CLI section][aiven-cli].

## Logging integrations

If you need to access logs for your services regularly, or if you need more
detailed logging than Managed Service for TimescaleDB can provide in the web
console, you can connect your Managed Service for TimescaleDB to a logging
service such as [SolarWinds Loggly][loggly-site].

This section covers how to create a service integration to Loggly with Managed
Service for TimescaleDB.

<Procedure>

### Creating a Loggly service integration

1.  Navigate to [SolarWinds Loggly][loggly-site] and create or log in to your account.
1.  From the Loggly Home screen, navigate to `Logs`→`Source Setup`. Click
    `Customer Tokens` from the top menu bar.
1.  On the `Customer Tokens` page, click `Add New` to create a new token. Give your
    token a name, and click `Save`. Copy your new token to your clipboard.
1.  Log in to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB account, and navigate
    to `Service Integrations`.
1.  In the `Service Integrations` page, navigate to `Syslog`, and click
    `Add new endpoint`.
1.  In the `Create new syslog endpoint` dialog, complete these fields:

      *   In the `Endpoint name` field, type a name for your endpoint.
      *   In the `Server` field, type `logs-01.loggly.com`.
      *   In the `Port` field, type `514`.
      *   Uncheck the `TLS` checkbox.
      *   In the `Format` field, select `rfc5425`.
      *   In the `Structured Data` field, type `<LOGGLY_TOKEN>@41058`, using the
          Loggly token you copied earlier. You can also add a tag here, which
          you can use to more easily search for your logs in Loggly. For
          example,
          `8480330f5-aa09-46b0-b220-a0efa372b17b@41058 TAG="example-tag"`.

    Click `Create` to create the endpoint. When the endpoint has been created,
    it shows as an enabled service integration, with a green `active` indicator.
1.  In the Loggly dashboard, navigate to `Search` to see your incoming logs.
    From here, you can create custom dashboards and view reports for your logs.

    <img class="main-content__illustration"
    width={1375} height={944}
    src="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/loggly-view-logs.webp"
    alt="Viewing incoming MST logs in Loggly"
    />

</Procedure>

[loggly-site]: https://www.loggly.com/
[aiven-cli]: /mst/:currentVersion:/aiven-client/#install-and-configure-the-aiven-client

Commit message:

fix: add links to mst portal and update screenshots.

mst/integrations/logging.md, after:

---
title: Logging
excerpt: Retrieve logging information on Managed Service for TimescaleDB
products: [mst]
keywords: [logging, Loggly, integration]
---

# Logging

There are a number of different ways to review logs and metrics for your Managed
Service for TimescaleDB services. You can use the native logging tool
in the web console, retrieve details logs using the Aiven CLI tool, or
integrate a third-party service, such as [SolarWinds Loggly][loggly-site].

## Native logging

To see the most recent logged events for your service. 

1. In [MST Portal][mst-login], in the `Services` tab, find the service you want to review, and check it is 
   marked as `Running`.
2. Navigate to the `Logs` tab to see a constantly updated list of logged events.

    <img class="main-content__illustration"
    src="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/mst/view-logs.png"
    alt="Managed Service for TimescaleDB native logging"/>

## Dump logs to a text file with the Aiven CLI

If you want to dump your Managed Service for TimescaleDB logs to a text file or
an archive for use later on, you can use the Aiven CLI.

Sign in to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB account from the Aiven CLI tool,
and use this command to dump your logs to a text file called `tslogs.txt`:

```bash
avn service logs -S desc -f --project <project name> <service_name> > tslogs.txt
```

For more information about the Aiven CLI tool, see the
[Aiven CLI section][aiven-cli].

## Logging integrations

If you need to access logs for your services regularly, or if you need more
detailed logging than Managed Service for TimescaleDB can provide in the web
console, you can connect your Managed Service for TimescaleDB to a logging
service such as [SolarWinds Loggly][loggly-site].

This section covers how to create a service integration to Loggly with Managed
Service for TimescaleDB.

<Procedure>

### Creating a Loggly service integration

1.  Navigate to [SolarWinds Loggly][loggly-site] and create or log in to your account.
1.  From the Loggly Home screen, navigate to `Logs`→`Source Setup`. Click
    `Customer Tokens` from the top menu bar.
1.  On the `Customer Tokens` page, click `Add New` to create a new token. Give your
    token a name, and click `Save`. Copy your new token to your clipboard.
1.  Log in to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB account, and navigate
    to `Service Integrations`.
1.  In the `Service Integrations` page, navigate to `Syslog`, and click
    `Add new endpoint`.
1.  In the `Create new syslog endpoint` dialog, complete these fields:

      *   In the `Endpoint name` field, type a name for your endpoint.
      *   In the `Server` field, type `logs-01.loggly.com`.
      *   In the `Port` field, type `514`.
      *   Uncheck the `TLS` checkbox.
      *   In the `Format` field, select `rfc5425`.
      *   In the `Structured Data` field, type `<LOGGLY_TOKEN>@41058`, using the
          Loggly token you copied earlier. You can also add a tag here, which
          you can use to more easily search for your logs in Loggly. For
          example,
          `8480330f5-aa09-46b0-b220-a0efa372b17b@41058 TAG="example-tag"`.

    Click `Create` to create the endpoint. When the endpoint has been created,
    it shows as an enabled service integration, with a green `active` indicator.
1.  In the Loggly dashboard, navigate to `Search` to see your incoming logs.
    From here, you can create custom dashboards and view reports for your logs.

    <img class="main-content__illustration"
    width={1375} height={944}
    src="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/loggly-view-logs.webp"
    alt="Viewing incoming MST logs in Loggly"
    />

</Procedure>

[loggly-site]: https://www.loggly.com/
[aiven-cli]: /mst/:currentVersion:/aiven-client/#install-and-configure-the-aiven-client

[mst-login]:https://portal.managed.timescale.com/login
