self-hosted/install/installation-source.md, before:

---
title: Install TimescaleDB from source
excerpt: Install self-hosted TimescaleDB from source
products: [self_hosted]
keywords: [installation, self-hosted]
---

import WhereTo from "versionContent/_partials/_where-to-next.mdx";

# Install self-hosted TimescaleDB from source

You can host TimescaleDB yourself, on any system, by downloading the source code
and compiling it. These instructions do not require the use of a package manager
or installation tool.

Before you start, make sure you have installed:

*   PostgreSQL 12 or later, with a development environment. For more information
    about PostgreSQL installation, including downloads and instructions, see the
    [PostgreSQL documentation][postgres-download].

You also need:

*   CMake version 3.11 or later for your operating system. For more information
    about CMake installation, including downloads and instructions, see the [CMake documentation][cmake-download].
*   C language compiler for your operating system, such as `gcc` or `clang`.
*   Check the [compatibility matrix][compatibility-matrix] of TimescaleDB versions
    with PostgreSQL versions.

<Highlight type="note">
If you are using a Microsoft Windows system, you can install Visual Studio 2015
or later instead of CMake and a C language compiler. Ensure you install the
Visual Studio components for CMake and Git when you run the installer.
</Highlight>

<Procedure>

## Installing self-hosted TimescaleDB from source

1.  At the command prompt, clone the TimescaleDB GitHub repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb
    ```

1.  Change into the cloned directory:

    ```bash
    cd timescaledb
    ```

1.  Checkout the latest release. You can find the latest release tag on
    our [Releases page][gh-releases]:

    ```bash
    git checkout 2.12.1
    ```

    This command produces an error that you are now in `detached head` state. It
    is expected behavior, and it occurs because you have checked out a tag, and
    not a branch. Continue with the steps in this procedure as normal.

1.  Bootstrap the build system:

    <Terminal>

    <tab label='Linux'>

    ```bash
    ./bootstrap
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```powershell
    bootstrap.bat
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

    For installation on Microsoft Windows, you might need to add the `pg_config`
    and `cmake` file locations to your path. In the Windows Search tool, search
    for `system environment variables`. The path for `pg_config` should be
    `C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\<version>\bin`. The path for `cmake` is within
    the Visual Studio directory.

2.  Build the extension:

    <Terminal>

    <tab label='Linux'>

    ```bash
    cd build && make
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```powershell
    cmake --build ./build --config Release
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

3.  Install TimescaleDB:

    <Terminal>

    <tab label='Linux'>

    ```bash
    make install
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```powershell
    cmake --build ./build --config Release --target install
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

</Procedure>

## Configure PostgreSQL after installing from source

When you install TimescaleDB from source, you need to do some additional
PostgreSQL configuration to add the TimescaleDB library.

<Highlight type="important">
If you have more than one version of PostgreSQL installed, TimescaleDB can only
be associated with one of them. The TimescaleDB build scripts use `pg_config` to
find out where PostgreSQL stores its extension files, so you can use `pg_config`
to find out which PostgreSQL installation TimescaleDB is using.
</Highlight>

<Procedure>

### Configuring PostgreSQL after installing from source

1.  Locate the `postgresql.conf` configuration file:

    ```bash
    psql -d postgres -c "SHOW config_file;"
    ```

1.  Open the `postgresql.conf` file in your preferred text editor, and locate
    the `shared_preload_libraries` parameter. Uncomment the line, and
    add `timescaledb`:

    ```bash
    shared_preload_libraries = 'timescaledb'
    ```

    If you use other preloaded libraries, make sure they are comma separated.
1.  Restart the PostgreSQL instance:
    <Terminal>

    <tab label='Linux'>

    ```bash
    service postgresql restart
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```powershell
    pg_ctl restart
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

</Procedure>

When you have completed the installation, you need to configure your database so
that you can use it. The easiest way to do this is to run the `timescaledb-tune`
script, which is included with the `timescaledb-tools` package. For more
information, see the [configuration][config] section.

## Set up the TimescaleDB extension

When you have PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB installed, you can connect to it from
your local system using the `psql` command-line utility. This is the same tool
you might have used to connect to PostgreSQL before, but if you haven't
installed it yet, check out our [installing psql][install-psql] section.

<Procedure>

### Setting up the TimescaleDB extension

1.  On your local system, at the command prompt, connect to the PostgreSQL
    instance as the `postgres` superuser:

    ```bash
    psql -U postgres -h localhost
    ```

    If your connection is successful, you'll see a message like this, followed
    by the `psql` prompt:

    ```
    psql (13.3, server 12.8 (Ubuntu 12.8-1.pgdg21.04+1))
    SSL connection (protocol: TLSv1.3, cipher: TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384, bits: 256, compression: off)
    Type "help" for help.
    tsdb=>
    ```

1.  At the `psql` prompt, create an empty database. Our database is
    called `example`:

    ```sql
    CREATE database example;
    ```

1.  Connect to the database you created:

    ```sql
    \c example
    ```

1.  Add the TimescaleDB extension:

    ```sql
    CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS timescaledb;
    ```

1.  You can now connect to your database using this command:

    ```bash
    psql -U postgres -h localhost -d example
    ```

</Procedure>

You can check that the TimescaleDB extension is installed by using the `\dx`
command at the `psql` prompt. It looks like this:

```sql
tsdb=> \dx
List of installed extensions
-[ RECORD 1 ]------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | pg_stat_statements
Version     | 1.7
Schema      | public
Description | track execution statistics of all SQL statements executed
-[ RECORD 2 ]------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | plpgsql
Version     | 1.0
Schema      | pg_catalog
Description | PL/pgSQL procedural language
-[ RECORD 3 ]------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | timescaledb
Version     | 2.5.1
Schema      | public
Description | Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
-[ RECORD 4 ]------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | timescaledb_toolkit
Version     | 1.3.1
Schema      | public
Description | timescaledb_toolkit

tsdb=>
```

## Where to next

<WhereTo />

[install-psql]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/integrations/query-admin/about-psql/
[config]: /self-hosted/:currentVersion:/configuration/
[postgres-download]: https://www.postgresql.org/download/
[cmake-download]: https://cmake.org/download/
[gh-releases]: https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/releases
[compatibility-matrix]: /self-hosted/:currentVersion:/upgrades/upgrade-pg/

Commit message:

Remove PG12 from Updgrade matrix
Also link to matrix from install from source page so we don't have to
update every time :)

self-hosted/install/installation-source.md, after:

---
title: Install TimescaleDB from source
excerpt: Install self-hosted TimescaleDB from source
products: [self_hosted]
keywords: [installation, self-hosted]
---

import WhereTo from "versionContent/_partials/_where-to-next.mdx";

# Install self-hosted TimescaleDB from source

You can host TimescaleDB yourself, on any system, by downloading the source code
and compiling it. These instructions do not require the use of a package manager
or installation tool.

Before you start, make sure you have installed:

*   A [supported version of PostgreSQL][compatibility-matrix], with a development environment. 
    For more information about PostgreSQL installation, including downloads and instructions, 
    see the [PostgreSQL documentation][postgres-download].

You also need:

*   CMake version 3.11 or later for your operating system. For more information
    about CMake installation, including downloads and instructions, see the [CMake documentation][cmake-download].
*   C language compiler for your operating system, such as `gcc` or `clang`.
*   Check the [compatibility matrix][compatibility-matrix] of TimescaleDB versions
    with PostgreSQL versions.

<Highlight type="note">
If you are using a Microsoft Windows system, you can install Visual Studio 2015
or later instead of CMake and a C language compiler. Ensure you install the
Visual Studio components for CMake and Git when you run the installer.
</Highlight>

<Procedure>

## Installing self-hosted TimescaleDB from source

1.  At the command prompt, clone the TimescaleDB GitHub repository:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb
    ```

1.  Change into the cloned directory:

    ```bash
    cd timescaledb
    ```

1.  Checkout the latest release. You can find the latest release tag on
    our [Releases page][gh-releases]:

    ```bash
    git checkout 2.12.1
    ```

    This command produces an error that you are now in `detached head` state. It
    is expected behavior, and it occurs because you have checked out a tag, and
    not a branch. Continue with the steps in this procedure as normal.

1.  Bootstrap the build system:

    <Terminal>

    <tab label='Linux'>

    ```bash
    ./bootstrap
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```powershell
    bootstrap.bat
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

    For installation on Microsoft Windows, you might need to add the `pg_config`
    and `cmake` file locations to your path. In the Windows Search tool, search
    for `system environment variables`. The path for `pg_config` should be
    `C:\Program Files\PostgreSQL\<version>\bin`. The path for `cmake` is within
    the Visual Studio directory.

2.  Build the extension:

    <Terminal>

    <tab label='Linux'>

    ```bash
    cd build && make
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```powershell
    cmake --build ./build --config Release
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

3.  Install TimescaleDB:

    <Terminal>

    <tab label='Linux'>

    ```bash
    make install
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```powershell
    cmake --build ./build --config Release --target install
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

</Procedure>

## Configure PostgreSQL after installing from source

When you install TimescaleDB from source, you need to do some additional
PostgreSQL configuration to add the TimescaleDB library.

<Highlight type="important">
If you have more than one version of PostgreSQL installed, TimescaleDB can only
be associated with one of them. The TimescaleDB build scripts use `pg_config` to
find out where PostgreSQL stores its extension files, so you can use `pg_config`
to find out which PostgreSQL installation TimescaleDB is using.
</Highlight>

<Procedure>

### Configuring PostgreSQL after installing from source

1.  Locate the `postgresql.conf` configuration file:

    ```bash
    psql -d postgres -c "SHOW config_file;"
    ```

1.  Open the `postgresql.conf` file in your preferred text editor, and locate
    the `shared_preload_libraries` parameter. Uncomment the line, and
    add `timescaledb`:

    ```bash
    shared_preload_libraries = 'timescaledb'
    ```

    If you use other preloaded libraries, make sure they are comma separated.
1.  Restart the PostgreSQL instance:
    <Terminal>

    <tab label='Linux'>

    ```bash
    service postgresql restart
    ```

    </tab>

    <tab label="Windows">

    ```powershell
    pg_ctl restart
    ```

    </tab>

    </Terminal>

</Procedure>

When you have completed the installation, you need to configure your database so
that you can use it. The easiest way to do this is to run the `timescaledb-tune`
script, which is included with the `timescaledb-tools` package. For more
information, see the [configuration][config] section.

## Set up the TimescaleDB extension

When you have PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB installed, you can connect to it from
your local system using the `psql` command-line utility. This is the same tool
you might have used to connect to PostgreSQL before, but if you haven't
installed it yet, check out our [installing psql][install-psql] section.

<Procedure>

### Setting up the TimescaleDB extension

1.  On your local system, at the command prompt, connect to the PostgreSQL
    instance as the `postgres` superuser:

    ```bash
    psql -U postgres -h localhost
    ```

    If your connection is successful, you'll see a message like this, followed
    by the `psql` prompt:

    ```
    psql (13.3, server 12.8 (Ubuntu 12.8-1.pgdg21.04+1))
    SSL connection (protocol: TLSv1.3, cipher: TLS_AES_256_GCM_SHA384, bits: 256, compression: off)
    Type "help" for help.
    tsdb=>
    ```

1.  At the `psql` prompt, create an empty database. Our database is
    called `example`:

    ```sql
    CREATE database example;
    ```

1.  Connect to the database you created:

    ```sql
    \c example
    ```

1.  Add the TimescaleDB extension:

    ```sql
    CREATE EXTENSION IF NOT EXISTS timescaledb;
    ```

1.  You can now connect to your database using this command:

    ```bash
    psql -U postgres -h localhost -d example
    ```

</Procedure>

You can check that the TimescaleDB extension is installed by using the `\dx`
command at the `psql` prompt. It looks like this:

```sql
tsdb=> \dx
List of installed extensions
-[ RECORD 1 ]------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | pg_stat_statements
Version     | 1.7
Schema      | public
Description | track execution statistics of all SQL statements executed
-[ RECORD 2 ]------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | plpgsql
Version     | 1.0
Schema      | pg_catalog
Description | PL/pgSQL procedural language
-[ RECORD 3 ]------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | timescaledb
Version     | 2.5.1
Schema      | public
Description | Enables scalable inserts and complex queries for time-series data
-[ RECORD 4 ]------------------------------------------------------------------
Name        | timescaledb_toolkit
Version     | 1.3.1
Schema      | public
Description | timescaledb_toolkit

tsdb=>
```

## Where to next

<WhereTo />

[install-psql]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/integrations/query-admin/about-psql/
[config]: /self-hosted/:currentVersion:/configuration/
[postgres-download]: https://www.postgresql.org/download/
[cmake-download]: https://cmake.org/download/
[gh-releases]: https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/releases
[compatibility-matrix]: /self-hosted/:currentVersion:/upgrades/upgrade-pg/
