_partials/_caggs-types.md, before:

There are three main types of aggregation: materialized views, continuous
aggregates, and real time aggregates.

[Materialized views][pg-materialized views] are a standard PostgreSQL function.
They are used to cache the result of a complex query so that you can reuse it
later on. Materialized views do not update regularly, although you can manually
refresh them as required.

[Continuous aggregates][about-caggs] are a Timescale only feature. They work in a similar way
to a materialized view, but they are refreshed automatically. Continuous
aggregates update to a set point in time called the materialization threshold,
which means that they do not include the most recent data chunk from the
underlying hypertable.

[Real time aggregates][real-time-aggs] are a Timescale only feature. They are
the same as continuous aggregates, but they add the most recent raw data to the
previously aggregated data to provide accurate and up to date results, without
needing to aggregate data as it is being written.

[pg-materialized views]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html
[about-caggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/about-continuous-aggregates/
[real-time-aggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/real-time-aggregates/

Commit message:

Slight edits to intro caggs sections (#2602)
* Slight edits to intro caggs sections

* Update _partials/_caggs-intro.md

Co-authored-by: Rajakavitha Kodhandapani <krajakavitha@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

* edits per feedback

---------

Signed-off-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Co-authored-by: Rajakavitha Kodhandapani <krajakavitha@gmail.com>

_partials/_caggs-types.md, after:

There are three main ways to make aggregation easier: materialized views,
continuous aggregates, and real time aggregates.

[Materialized views][pg-materialized views] are a standard PostgreSQL function.
They are used to cache the result of a complex query so that you can reuse it
later on. Materialized views do not update regularly, although you can manually
refresh them as required.

[Continuous aggregates][about-caggs] are a Timescale only feature. They work in
a similar way to a materialized view, but they are updated automatically in the
background, as new data is added to your database. Continuous aggregates are
updated continuously and incrementally, which means they are less resource
intensive to maintain than materialized views. Continuous aggregates are based
on hypertables, and you can query them in the same way as you do your other
tables.

[Real time aggregates][real-time-aggs] are a Timescale only feature. They are
the same as continuous aggregates, but they add the most recent raw data to the
previously aggregated data to provide accurate and up to date results, without
needing to aggregate data as it is being written.

[pg-materialized views]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html
[about-caggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/about-continuous-aggregates/
[real-time-aggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/real-time-aggregates/
