_partials/_migrate_dual_write_dump_database_roles.md, before:

```bash
pg_dumpall -d "$SOURCE" \
  --quote-all-identifiers \
  --roles-only \
  --file=roles.sql
```

Timescale services do not support roles with superuser access. If your SQL
dump includes roles that have such permissions, you'll need to modify the file
to be compliant with the security model.

You can use the following `sed` command to remove unsupported statements and
permissions from your roles.sql file:

```bash
sed -i -E \
-e '/CREATE ROLE "postgres";/d' \
-e '/ALTER ROLE "postgres"/d' \
-e 's/(NO)*SUPERUSER//g' \
-e 's/(NO)*REPLICATION//g' \
-e 's/(NO)*BYPASSRLS//g' \
-e 's/GRANTED BY "[^"]*"//g' \
roles.sql
```

<Highlight type="note">
This command works only with the GNU implementation of sed (sometimes referred
to as gsed). For the BSD implementation (the default on macOS), you need to
add an extra argument to change the `-i` flag to `-i ''`.

To check the sed version, you can use the command `sed --version`. While the
GNU version explicitly identifies itself as GNU, the BSD version of sed
generally doesn't provide a straightforward --version flag and simply outputs
an "illegal option" error.
</Highlight>

A brief explanation of this script is:

- `CREATE ROLE "postgres"`; and `ALTER ROLE "postgres"`: These statements are
  removed because they require superuser access, which is not supported
  by Timescale.

- `(NO)SUPERUSER` | `(NO)REPLICATION` | `(NO)BYPASSRLS`: These are permissions
  that require superuser access.

- `GRANTED BY role_specification`: The GRANTED BY clause can also have permissions that
  require superuser access and should therefore be removed. Note: Per the
  TimescaleDB documentation, the GRANTOR in the GRANTED BY clause must be the
  current user, and this clause mainly serves the purpose of SQL compatibility.
  Therefore, it's safe to remove it.

Commit message:

Add pg_dumpall error note

_partials/_migrate_dual_write_dump_database_roles.md, after:

```bash
pg_dumpall -d "$SOURCE" \
  -l $DB_NAME \
  --quote-all-identifiers \
  --roles-only \
  --file=roles.sql
```

<Highlight type="important">
Some providers like Managed Service for TimescaleDB (MST) and AWS RDS don't
support role password dumps. If dumping the passwords results in the error:

```
pg_dumpall: error: query failed: ERROR:  permission denied for table pg_authid
```

Execute the command adding the `--no-role-passwords` flag. After restoring the
roles into the target database, manually set passwords with `ALTER ROLE name
WITH PASSWORD '<YOUR_PASSOWRD>';`
</Highlight>

Timescale services do not support roles with superuser access. If your SQL
dump includes roles that have such permissions, you'll need to modify the file
to be compliant with the security model.

You can use the following `sed` command to remove unsupported statements and
permissions from your roles.sql file:

```bash
sed -i -E \
-e '/CREATE ROLE "postgres";/d' \
-e '/ALTER ROLE "postgres"/d' \
-e 's/(NO)*SUPERUSER//g' \
-e 's/(NO)*REPLICATION//g' \
-e 's/(NO)*BYPASSRLS//g' \
-e 's/GRANTED BY "[^"]*"//g' \
roles.sql
```

<Highlight type="note">
This command works only with the GNU implementation of sed (sometimes referred
to as gsed). For the BSD implementation (the default on macOS), you need to
add an extra argument to change the `-i` flag to `-i ''`.

To check the sed version, you can use the command `sed --version`. While the
GNU version explicitly identifies itself as GNU, the BSD version of sed
generally doesn't provide a straightforward --version flag and simply outputs
an "illegal option" error.
</Highlight>

A brief explanation of this script is:

- `CREATE ROLE "postgres"`; and `ALTER ROLE "postgres"`: These statements are
  removed because they require superuser access, which is not supported
  by Timescale.

- `(NO)SUPERUSER` | `(NO)REPLICATION` | `(NO)BYPASSRLS`: These are permissions
  that require superuser access.

- `GRANTED BY role_specification`: The GRANTED BY clause can also have permissions that
  require superuser access and should therefore be removed. Note: Per the
  TimescaleDB documentation, the GRANTOR in the GRANTED BY clause must be the
  current user, and this clause mainly serves the purpose of SQL compatibility.
  Therefore, it's safe to remove it.
