migrate/live-migration/index.md, before:

---
title: Live migration
excerpt: Migrate an entire database with low downtime
products: [cloud]
keywords: [migration, low-downtime, backup]
tags: [recovery, logical backup, replication]
---
import SourceTargetNote from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_source_target_note.mdx";

# Live migration

Live migration is a migration strategy to move a large amount of data
(100&nbsp;GB-10&nbsp;TB+) with low downtime (on the order of few minutes). It requires
more steps to execute than a migration with downtime using [pg_dump/restore][pg-dump-and-restore],
but supports more use-cases and has less requirements than the [dual-write and backfill] method.

<SourceTargetNote />

Live migration leverages Postgres' built-in replication functionality to
provide a seamless migration with very little application downtime.

Roughly, it consists of four steps:

1. Prepare and create replication slot in source database.
2. Copy schema from source to target, optionally enabling hypertables.
3. Copy data from source to target while capturing changes.
4. Apply captured changes from source to target.

Live migration works well when:
- Large, busy tables have primary keys, or don't have many `UPDATE` or
  `DELETE` statements.
- The insert workload does not exceed 20,000 rows per second, and
  inserts are batched. If your application exceeds this, you should use
  the [dual-write and backfill] migration method.

Live migration has the following shortcomings:
- It does not support schema changes (DDL) during the migration process

For more information, refer to the step-by-step migration guide:

- [Live migration from PostgreSQL][from-postgres]
- [Live migration from TimescaleDB][from-timescaledb]

If you want to manually migrate data from PostgreSQL, refer to
[Live migration from PostgreSQL manually][live-migration-manual].

If you are migrating from AWS RDS to Timescale, you can refer to [this][live-migration-playbook] playbook
for a detailed migration guide.

[from-postgres]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/live-migration/live-migration-from-postgres/
[from-timescaledb]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/live-migration/live-migration-from-timescaledb/
[live-migration-manual]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/playbooks/live-migration-from-timescaledb-manually/
[pg-dump-and-restore]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/pg-dump-and-restore/
[dual-write and backfill]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/dual-write-and-backfill/
[live-migration-playbook]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/playbooks/rds-timescale-live-migration/

Commit message:

Add experimental note to live migration (#3006)

migrate/live-migration/index.md, after:

---
title: Live migration
excerpt: Migrate an entire database with low downtime
products: [cloud]
keywords: [migration, low-downtime, backup]
tags: [recovery, logical backup, replication]
---
import SourceTargetNote from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_source_target_note.mdx";
import OpenSupportRequest from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_open_support_request.mdx"

# Live migration

Live migration is a new migration strategy to move a large amount of data
(100&nbsp;GB-10&nbsp;TB+) with low downtime (on the order of few minutes). It
requires more steps to execute than a migration with downtime using
[pg_dump/restore][pg-dump-and-restore], but supports more use-cases and has
fewer requirements than the [dual-write and backfill] method.

<Highlight type="important">

Be aware that the live migration tooling is currently experimental. Concretely,
this means that you may run into the following shortcomings:

- You may experience failure to migrate your database due to incompatibilities
  between the source and target (e.g. tables with generated columns cannot be
  replicated).
- In most cases it is not possible to resume a failed migration, and must be
  restarted from the beginning.
- By default, numeric fields containing `NaN`/`+Inf`/`-Inf` values are not
  correctly replicated, and will be converted to `NULL`. A workaround is
  available, but is not enabled by default.

Should you run into any problems, please open a support request before losing
any time debugging issues.
<OpenSupportRequest />

</Highlight>

Live migration leverages Postgres' built-in replication functionality to
provide a seamless migration with very little application downtime.

<SourceTargetNote />

Roughly, it consists of four steps:

1. Prepare and create replication slot in source database.
2. Copy schema from source to target, optionally enabling hypertables.
3. Copy data from source to target while capturing changes.
4. Apply captured changes from source to target.

Live migration works well when:
- Large, busy tables have primary keys, or don't have many `UPDATE` or
  `DELETE` statements.
- The insert workload does not exceed 20,000 rows per second, and
  inserts are batched. If your application exceeds this, you should use
  the [dual-write and backfill] migration method.

Live migration has the following shortcomings:
- It does not support schema changes (DDL) during the migration process

For more information, refer to the step-by-step migration guide:

- [Live migration from PostgreSQL][from-postgres]
- [Live migration from TimescaleDB][from-timescaledb]

If you want to manually migrate data from PostgreSQL, refer to
[Live migration from PostgreSQL manually][live-migration-manual].

If you are migrating from AWS RDS to Timescale, you can refer to [this][live-migration-playbook] playbook
for a detailed migration guide.

[from-postgres]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/live-migration/live-migration-from-postgres/
[from-timescaledb]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/live-migration/live-migration-from-timescaledb/
[live-migration-manual]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/playbooks/live-migration-from-timescaledb-manually/
[pg-dump-and-restore]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/pg-dump-and-restore/
[dual-write and backfill]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/dual-write-and-backfill/
[live-migration-playbook]: /migrate/:currentVersion:/playbooks/rds-timescale-live-migration/
