migrate/live-migration/live-migration-from-timescaledb.md, before:

---
title: Migrate from TimescaleDB using live migration
excerpt: Migrate from a TimescaleDB database using the low-downtime live migration method
products: [cloud]
keywords: [migration, low-downtime]
tags: [migration, logical backup, replication]
---

import GettingHelp from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_dual_write_backfill_getting_help.mdx";
import SourceTargetNote from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_source_target_note.mdx";
import StepOne from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_dual_write_step1.mdx";
import DumpDatabaseRoles from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_dual_write_dump_database_roles.mdx";
import DumpPreDataSourceSchema from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_pre_data_dump_source_schema.mdx";
import DumpPostDataSourceSchema from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_post_data_dump_source_schema.mdx";
import LiveMigrationStep2 from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_live_migration_step2.mdx";

# Live migration from TimescaleDB database with pgcopydb

This document provides detailed instructions to migrate data from your
TimescaleDB database (self-hosted or on [Managed Service for TimescaleDB]) to a
Timescale instance with minimal downtime (on the order of a few minutes) of
your production applications, using the [live migration] strategy. To simplify
the migration, we provide you with a docker image containing all the tools and
scripts that you need to perform the live migration.

You should provision a dedicated instance to run the migration steps from.
Ideally an AWS EC2 instance that's in the same region as the Timescale target service.
For an ingestion load of 10,000 transactions/s, and assuming that the historical
data copy takes 2 days, we recommend 4 CPUs with 4 to 8 GiB of RAM and 1.2 TiB of storage.

<SourceTargetNote />

In detail, the migration process consists of the following steps:
1. Set up a target database instance in Timescale.
1. Prepare the source database for live migration.
1. Run the live migration docker image.
1. Validate the data in target database and use it as new primary.

<GettingHelp />

<StepOne />

## 2. Prepare the source database for live migration

<LiveMigrationStep2 />

Next, you need to ensure that your source tables and hypertables have either a primary key
or `REPLICA IDENTITY` set. This is important as it is a requirement for replicating `DELETE` and
`UPDATE` operations. Replica identity assists the replication process in identifying the rows
being modified. It defaults to using the table's primary key.

If a table doesn't have a primary key, you'll have to manually set the replica identity.
One option is to use a unique, non-partial, non-deferrable index that includes only columns
marked as `NOT NULL`. This can be set as the replica identity:

```sh
ALTER TABLE {table_name} REPLICA IDENTITY USING INDEX {_index_name}
```

If there's no primary key or viable unique index to use, you have to set `REPLICA IDENTITY`
to `FULL`. If you are expecting a large number of `UPDATE` or `DELETE` operations on the table,
using `FULL` is not recommended. For each `UPDATE` or `DELETE` statement, PostgreSQL reads the
whole table to find all matching rows, resulting in significantly slower replication.

```sh
ALTER TABLE {table_name} REPLICA IDENTITY FULL
```

<Highlight type="important">
TimescaleDB 2.12 and above allows setting `REPLICA IDENTITY` on hypertables. However,
if you're using a version below 2.12, it’s important that your hypertables have primary keys.
If they don't, you will need to upgrade your TimescaleDB instance. This is because, without a
primary key or `REPLICA IDENTITY`, operations such as `DELETE` and `UPDATE` will not be replicated,
which will impact the consistency of your data post migration.
</Highlight>

## 3. Run live migration docker image

First, set the database URIs as environment variables:

```sh
export SOURCE=""
export TARGET=""
```

Next, download and run the live migration docker image:

```sh
docker run --rm -dit --name live-migration \
  -e PGCOPYDB_SOURCE_PGURI=$SOURCE \
  -e PGCOPYDB_TARGET_PGURI=$TARGET \
  -v ~/live-migration:/opt/timescale/ts_cdc \
  timescale/live-migration:v0.0.6
```

<Highlight type="note">
The above command runs in background may take a while to complete.
You can use `docker attach` to interact with the migration image.

Ensure `/live-migration` directory has sufficient space available.
Ideally, 1.5 times the source database size should be good.
</Highlight>

The command will take a snapshot of your source database, migrate existing data to the
target, and stream live transactions from the source to the target. During this process,
it will display the lag between the source and target databases in terms of WAL offset size.

```sh
[WATCH] Source DB - Target DB => 126MB
```

When the lag between the source and target database is less than 30 megabytes, it will
start `ANALYZE` on the target database. This updates statistics in the target database,
which is necessary for optimal querying performance in the target database. Wait for
`ANALYZE` to complete.

<Highlight type="important">
Application downtime begins here.
</Highlight>

Once the lag between the databases is below 30 megabytes, and you're ready to
take your applications offline, stop all applications which are writing to the
source database. This is the downtime phase and will last until you have
completed the validation step (4). Be sure to go through the validation step
(4) before you enter the downtime phase to keep the overall downtime minimal.

Stopping writes to the source database allows the live migration process to
finish replicating data to the target database. This will be evident when the
replication lag reduces to 0 megabytes.

Once the replication lag is 0, wait for a few minutes and then provide the
signal to proceed by pressing key `c`.

```sh
[WATCH] Source DB - Target DB => 0MB. Press "c" (and ENTER) to stop live-replay
Syncing last LSN in Source DB to Target DB ...
```

The live migration image will continue the remaining work under live replay,
copy TimescaleDB metadata, sequences, and run policies. You should see the
following message if all the mentioned steps were successful.

```sh
Migration successfully completed
```

## 4. Validate the data in target database and use it as new primary

Now that all data has been migrated, the contents of both databases should be the
same. How exactly this should best be validated is dependent on your application.
You could compare the number of rows or an aggregate of columns to validate that
the target database matches with the source.

<Highlight type="important">
Application downtime ends here.
</Highlight>

Once you are confident with the data validation, the final step is to configure
your applications to use the target database.

[Managed Service for TimescaleDB]: https://www.timescale.com/mst-signup/
[live migration]: https://docs.timescale.com/migrate/latest/live-migration/

Commit message:

fix: tweak live migration disk recommendation (#3050)
Live migration doesn't need intermediate storage for the initial data
copy, so the disk requirements are lower.

migrate/live-migration/live-migration-from-timescaledb.md, after:

---
title: Migrate from TimescaleDB using live migration
excerpt: Migrate from a TimescaleDB database using the low-downtime live migration method
products: [cloud]
keywords: [migration, low-downtime]
tags: [migration, logical backup, replication]
---

import GettingHelp from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_dual_write_backfill_getting_help.mdx";
import SourceTargetNote from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_source_target_note.mdx";
import StepOne from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_dual_write_step1.mdx";
import DumpDatabaseRoles from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_dual_write_dump_database_roles.mdx";
import DumpPreDataSourceSchema from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_pre_data_dump_source_schema.mdx";
import DumpPostDataSourceSchema from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_post_data_dump_source_schema.mdx";
import LiveMigrationStep2 from "versionContent/_partials/_migrate_live_migration_step2.mdx";

# Live migration from TimescaleDB database with pgcopydb

This document provides detailed instructions to migrate data from your
TimescaleDB database (self-hosted or on [Managed Service for TimescaleDB]) to a
Timescale instance with minimal downtime (on the order of a few minutes) of
your production applications, using the [live migration] strategy. To simplify
the migration, we provide you with a docker image containing all the tools and
scripts that you need to perform the live migration.

You should provision a dedicated instance to run the migration steps from.
Ideally an AWS EC2 instance that's in the same region as the Timescale target service.
For an ingestion load of 10,000 transactions/s, and assuming that the historical
data copy takes 2 days, we recommend 4 CPUs with 4 to 8 GiB of RAM and 1.2 TiB of storage.

<SourceTargetNote />

In detail, the migration process consists of the following steps:
1. Set up a target database instance in Timescale.
1. Prepare the source database for live migration.
1. Run the live migration docker image.
1. Validate the data in target database and use it as new primary.

<GettingHelp />

<StepOne />

## 2. Prepare the source database for live migration

<LiveMigrationStep2 />

Next, you need to ensure that your source tables and hypertables have either a primary key
or `REPLICA IDENTITY` set. This is important as it is a requirement for replicating `DELETE` and
`UPDATE` operations. Replica identity assists the replication process in identifying the rows
being modified. It defaults to using the table's primary key.

If a table doesn't have a primary key, you'll have to manually set the replica identity.
One option is to use a unique, non-partial, non-deferrable index that includes only columns
marked as `NOT NULL`. This can be set as the replica identity:

```sh
ALTER TABLE {table_name} REPLICA IDENTITY USING INDEX {_index_name}
```

If there's no primary key or viable unique index to use, you have to set `REPLICA IDENTITY`
to `FULL`. If you are expecting a large number of `UPDATE` or `DELETE` operations on the table,
using `FULL` is not recommended. For each `UPDATE` or `DELETE` statement, PostgreSQL reads the
whole table to find all matching rows, resulting in significantly slower replication.

```sh
ALTER TABLE {table_name} REPLICA IDENTITY FULL
```

<Highlight type="important">
TimescaleDB 2.12 and above allows setting `REPLICA IDENTITY` on hypertables. However,
if you're using a version below 2.12, it’s important that your hypertables have primary keys.
If they don't, you will need to upgrade your TimescaleDB instance. This is because, without a
primary key or `REPLICA IDENTITY`, operations such as `DELETE` and `UPDATE` will not be replicated,
which will impact the consistency of your data post migration.
</Highlight>

## 3. Run live migration docker image

First, set the database URIs as environment variables:

```sh
export SOURCE=""
export TARGET=""
```

Next, download and run the live migration docker image:

```sh
docker run --rm -dit --name live-migration \
  -e PGCOPYDB_SOURCE_PGURI=$SOURCE \
  -e PGCOPYDB_TARGET_PGURI=$TARGET \
  -v ~/live-migration:/opt/timescale/ts_cdc \
  timescale/live-migration:v0.0.6
```

<Highlight type="note">
The above command runs in background may take a while to complete.
You can use `docker attach` to interact with the migration image.

Ensure that the machine that you're running live migration on has sufficient
space available to contain the buffered changes which occur while the data is
being copied. This is approximately proportional to the amount of new data
(uncompressed) being written to the database during this period. As a general
rule of thumb, something between 100&nbsp;GB and 500&nbsp;GB should suffice.
</Highlight>

The command will take a snapshot of your source database, migrate existing data to the
target, and stream live transactions from the source to the target. During this process,
it will display the lag between the source and target databases in terms of WAL offset size.

```sh
[WATCH] Source DB - Target DB => 126MB
```

When the lag between the source and target database is less than 30 megabytes, it will
start `ANALYZE` on the target database. This updates statistics in the target database,
which is necessary for optimal querying performance in the target database. Wait for
`ANALYZE` to complete.

<Highlight type="important">
Application downtime begins here.
</Highlight>

Once the lag between the databases is below 30 megabytes, and you're ready to
take your applications offline, stop all applications which are writing to the
source database. This is the downtime phase and will last until you have
completed the validation step (4). Be sure to go through the validation step
(4) before you enter the downtime phase to keep the overall downtime minimal.

Stopping writes to the source database allows the live migration process to
finish replicating data to the target database. This will be evident when the
replication lag reduces to 0 megabytes.

Once the replication lag is 0, wait for a few minutes and then provide the
signal to proceed by pressing key `c`.

```sh
[WATCH] Source DB - Target DB => 0MB. Press "c" (and ENTER) to stop live-replay
Syncing last LSN in Source DB to Target DB ...
```

The live migration image will continue the remaining work under live replay,
copy TimescaleDB metadata, sequences, and run policies. You should see the
following message if all the mentioned steps were successful.

```sh
Migration successfully completed
```

## 4. Validate the data in target database and use it as new primary

Now that all data has been migrated, the contents of both databases should be the
same. How exactly this should best be validated is dependent on your application.
You could compare the number of rows or an aggregate of columns to validate that
the target database matches with the source.

<Highlight type="important">
Application downtime ends here.
</Highlight>

Once you are confident with the data validation, the final step is to configure
your applications to use the target database.

[Managed Service for TimescaleDB]: https://www.timescale.com/mst-signup/
[live migration]: https://docs.timescale.com/migrate/latest/live-migration/
