use-timescale/continuous-aggregates/about-continuous-aggregates.md, before:

---
title: About continuous aggregates
excerpt: Learn how continuous aggregates can speed up your Timescale queries
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [continuous aggregates]
---

import CaggsFunctionSupport from 'versionContent/_partials/_caggs-function-support.mdx';
import CaggsIntro from 'versionContent/_partials/_caggs-intro.mdx';

# About continuous aggregates

<CaggsIntro />

## Continuous aggregates on continuous aggregates

You can create a continuous aggregate on top of another continuous aggregate.
This allows you to summarize data at different granularities. For example, you
might have a raw hypertable that contains second-by-second data. Create a
continuous aggregate on the hypertable to calculate hourly data. To calculate
daily data, create a continuous aggregate on top of your hourly continuous
aggregate.

For more information, see the documentation about [continuous aggregates on
continuous aggregates][caggs-on-caggs].

## Function support

In TimescaleDB 2.7 and later, continuous aggregates support all PostgreSQL
aggregate functions. This includes both parallelizable aggregates, such as `SUM`
and `AVG`, and non-parallelizable aggregates, such as `RANK`.

In older versions of Timescale, continuous aggregates only support
[aggregate functions that can be parallelized by PostgreSQL][postgres-parallel-agg].
You can work around this by aggregating the other parts of your query in the
continuous aggregate, then
[using the window function to query the aggregate][cagg-window-functions].

<CaggsFunctionSupport />

If you want the old behavior in TimescaleDB 2.7 and later, set the parameter
`timescaledb.finalized` to `false` when creating your continuous aggregate.

## Components of a continuous aggregate

Continuous aggregates consist of:

*   Materialization hypertable to store the aggregated data in
*   Materialization engine to aggregate data from the raw, underlying, table to
    the materialization hypertable
*   Invalidation engine to determine when data needs to be re-materialized, due
    to changes in the data
*   Query engine to access the aggregated data

### Materialization hypertable

Continuous aggregates take raw data from the original hypertable, aggregate it,
and store the intermediate state in a materialization hypertable. When you query
the continuous aggregate view, the state is returned to you as needed.

Using the same temperature example, the materialization table looks like this:

|day|location|chunk|avg temperature partial|
|-|-|-|-|
|2021/01/01|New York|1|{3, 219}|
|2021/01/01|Stockholm|1|{4, 280}|
|2021/01/02|New York|2||
|2021/01/02|Stockholm|2|{5, 345}|

The materialization table is stored as a Timescale hypertable, to take
advantage of the scaling and query optimizations that hypertables offer.
Materialization tables contain a column for each group-by clause in the query,
a `chunk` column identifying which chunk in the raw data this entry came from,
and a `partial aggregate` column for each aggregate in the query.

The partial column is used internally to calculate the output. In this example,
because the query looks for an average, the partial column contains the number
of rows seen, and the sum of all their values. The most important thing to know
about partials is that they can be combined to create new partials spanning all
of the old partials' rows. This is important if you combine groups that span
multiple chunks.

For more information, see [materialization hypertables][cagg-mat-hypertables].

### Materialization engine

The materialization engine performs two transactions. The first transaction
blocks all INSERTs, UPDATEs, and DELETEs, determines the time range to
materialize, and updates the invalidation threshold. The second transaction
unblocks other transactions, and materializes the aggregates. The first
transaction is very quick, and most of the work happens during the second
transaction, to ensure that the work does not interfere with other operations.

When you query the continuous aggregate view, the materialization engine
combines the aggregate partials into a single partial for each time range, and
calculates the value that is returned. For example, to compute an average, each
partial sum is added up to a total sum, and each partial count is added up to a
total count, then the average is computed as the total sum divided by the total
count.

### Invalidation Engine

Any change to the data in a hypertable could potentially invalidate some
materialized rows. The invalidation engine checks to ensure that the system does
not become swamped with invalidations.

Fortunately, time-series data means that nearly all INSERTs and UPDATEs have a
recent timestamp, so the invalidation engine does not materialize all the data,
but to a set point in time called the materialization threshold. This threshold
is set so that the vast majority of INSERTs contain more recent timestamps.
These data points have never been materialized by the continuous aggregate, so
there is no additional work needed to notify the continuous aggregate that they
have been added. When the materializer next runs, it is responsible for
determining how much new data can be materialized without invalidating the
continuous aggregate. It then materializes the more recent data and moves the
materialization threshold forward in time. This ensures that the threshold lags
behind the point-in-time where data changes are common, and that most INSERTs do
not require any extra writes.

When data older than the invalidation threshold is changed, the maximum and
minimum timestamps of the changed rows is logged, and the values are used to
determine which rows in the aggregation table need to be recalculated. This
logging does cause some write load, but because the threshold lags behind the
area of data that is currently changing, the writes are small and rare.

## Using continuous aggregates in a multi-node environment

If you are using Timescale in a multi-node environment, there are some
additional considerations for continuous aggregates.

When you create a continuous aggregate within a multi-node environment, the
continuous aggregate should be created on the access node. While it is possible
to create a continuous aggregate on data nodes, it interferes with the
continuous aggregates on the access node and can cause problems.

When you refresh a continuous aggregate on an access node, it computes a single
window to update the time buckets. This could slow down your query if the actual
number of rows that were updated is small, but widely spread apart. This is
aggravated if the network latency is high if, for example, you have remote data
nodes.

Invalidation logs are on kept on the data nodes, which is designed to limit the
amount of data that needs to be transferred. However, some statements send
invalidations directly to the log, for example, when dropping a chunk or
truncate a hypertable. This action could slow down performance, in comparison to
a local update. Additionally, if you have infrequent refreshes but a lot of
changes to the hypertable, the invalidation logs could get very large, which
could cause performance issues. Make sure you are maintaining your invalidation
log size to avoid this, for example, by refreshing the continuous aggregate
frequently.

For more information about setting up multi-node, see the
[multi-node section][multi-node]

[cagg-mat-hypertables]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/materialized-hypertables
[cagg-window-functions]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/create-a-continuous-aggregate/#use-continuous-aggregates-with-window-functions
[caggs-on-caggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/hierarchical-continuous-aggregates/
[multi-node]: /self-hosted/:currentVersion:/multinode-timescaledb/
[postgres-parallel-agg]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/parallel-plans.html#PARALLEL-AGGREGATION
[real-time-aggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/hierarchical-continuous-aggregates/

Commit message:

Add description of three types of aggs (#2278)

use-timescale/continuous-aggregates/about-continuous-aggregates.md, after:

---
title: About continuous aggregates
excerpt: Learn how continuous aggregates can speed up your Timescale queries
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [continuous aggregates]
---

import CaggsFunctionSupport from 'versionContent/_partials/_caggs-function-support.mdx';
import CaggsIntro from 'versionContent/_partials/_caggs-intro.mdx';

# About continuous aggregates

<CaggsIntro />

## Types of aggregation

There are three main types of aggregation: materialized views, continuous
aggregates, and real time aggregates.

[Materialized views][pg-materialized views] are a standard PostgreSQL function.
They are used to cache the result of a complex query so that you can reuse it
later on. Materialized views do not update regularly, although you can manually
refresh them as required.

Continuous aggregates are a Timescale only feature. They work in a similar way
to a materialized view, but they are refreshed automatically. Continuous
aggregates update to a set point in time called the materialization threshold,
which means that they do not include the most recent data chunk from the
underlying hypertable.

[Real time aggregates][real-time-aggs] are a Timescale only feature. They are
the same as continuous aggregates, but they add the most recent raw data to the
previously aggregated data to provide accurate and up to date results, without
needing to aggregate data as it is being written.

## Continuous aggregates on continuous aggregates

You can create a continuous aggregate on top of another continuous aggregate.
This allows you to summarize data at different granularities. For example, you
might have a raw hypertable that contains second-by-second data. Create a
continuous aggregate on the hypertable to calculate hourly data. To calculate
daily data, create a continuous aggregate on top of your hourly continuous
aggregate.

For more information, see the documentation about [continuous aggregates on
continuous aggregates][caggs-on-caggs].

## Function support

In TimescaleDB 2.7 and later, continuous aggregates support all PostgreSQL
aggregate functions. This includes both parallelizable aggregates, such as `SUM`
and `AVG`, and non-parallelizable aggregates, such as `RANK`.

In older versions of Timescale, continuous aggregates only support
[aggregate functions that can be parallelized by PostgreSQL][postgres-parallel-agg].
You can work around this by aggregating the other parts of your query in the
continuous aggregate, then
[using the window function to query the aggregate][cagg-window-functions].

<CaggsFunctionSupport />

If you want the old behavior in TimescaleDB 2.7 and later, set the parameter
`timescaledb.finalized` to `false` when creating your continuous aggregate.

## Components of a continuous aggregate

Continuous aggregates consist of:

*   Materialization hypertable to store the aggregated data in
*   Materialization engine to aggregate data from the raw, underlying, table to
    the materialization hypertable
*   Invalidation engine to determine when data needs to be re-materialized, due
    to changes in the data
*   Query engine to access the aggregated data

### Materialization hypertable

Continuous aggregates take raw data from the original hypertable, aggregate it,
and store the intermediate state in a materialization hypertable. When you query
the continuous aggregate view, the state is returned to you as needed.

Using the same temperature example, the materialization table looks like this:

|day|location|chunk|avg temperature partial|
|-|-|-|-|
|2021/01/01|New York|1|{3, 219}|
|2021/01/01|Stockholm|1|{4, 280}|
|2021/01/02|New York|2||
|2021/01/02|Stockholm|2|{5, 345}|

The materialization table is stored as a Timescale hypertable, to take
advantage of the scaling and query optimizations that hypertables offer.
Materialization tables contain a column for each group-by clause in the query,
a `chunk` column identifying which chunk in the raw data this entry came from,
and a `partial aggregate` column for each aggregate in the query.

The partial column is used internally to calculate the output. In this example,
because the query looks for an average, the partial column contains the number
of rows seen, and the sum of all their values. The most important thing to know
about partials is that they can be combined to create new partials spanning all
of the old partials' rows. This is important if you combine groups that span
multiple chunks.

For more information, see [materialization hypertables][cagg-mat-hypertables].

### Materialization engine

The materialization engine performs two transactions. The first transaction
blocks all INSERTs, UPDATEs, and DELETEs, determines the time range to
materialize, and updates the invalidation threshold. The second transaction
unblocks other transactions, and materializes the aggregates. The first
transaction is very quick, and most of the work happens during the second
transaction, to ensure that the work does not interfere with other operations.

When you query the continuous aggregate view, the materialization engine
combines the aggregate partials into a single partial for each time range, and
calculates the value that is returned. For example, to compute an average, each
partial sum is added up to a total sum, and each partial count is added up to a
total count, then the average is computed as the total sum divided by the total
count.

### Invalidation engine

Any change to the data in a hypertable could potentially invalidate some
materialized rows. The invalidation engine checks to ensure that the system does
not become swamped with invalidations.

Fortunately, time-series data means that nearly all INSERTs and UPDATEs have a
recent timestamp, so the invalidation engine does not materialize all the data,
but to a set point in time called the materialization threshold. This threshold
is set so that the vast majority of INSERTs contain more recent timestamps.
These data points have never been materialized by the continuous aggregate, so
there is no additional work needed to notify the continuous aggregate that they
have been added. When the materializer next runs, it is responsible for
determining how much new data can be materialized without invalidating the
continuous aggregate. It then materializes the more recent data and moves the
materialization threshold forward in time. This ensures that the threshold lags
behind the point-in-time where data changes are common, and that most INSERTs do
not require any extra writes.

When data older than the invalidation threshold is changed, the maximum and
minimum timestamps of the changed rows is logged, and the values are used to
determine which rows in the aggregation table need to be recalculated. This
logging does cause some write load, but because the threshold lags behind the
area of data that is currently changing, the writes are small and rare.

## Using continuous aggregates in a multi-node environment

If you are using Timescale in a multi-node environment, there are some
additional considerations for continuous aggregates.

When you create a continuous aggregate within a multi-node environment, the
continuous aggregate should be created on the access node. While it is possible
to create a continuous aggregate on data nodes, it interferes with the
continuous aggregates on the access node and can cause problems.

When you refresh a continuous aggregate on an access node, it computes a single
window to update the time buckets. This could slow down your query if the actual
number of rows that were updated is small, but widely spread apart. This is
aggravated if the network latency is high if, for example, you have remote data
nodes.

Invalidation logs are on kept on the data nodes, which is designed to limit the
amount of data that needs to be transferred. However, some statements send
invalidations directly to the log, for example, when dropping a chunk or
truncate a hypertable. This action could slow down performance, in comparison to
a local update. Additionally, if you have infrequent refreshes but a lot of
changes to the hypertable, the invalidation logs could get very large, which
could cause performance issues. Make sure you are maintaining your invalidation
log size to avoid this, for example, by refreshing the continuous aggregate
frequently.

For more information about setting up multi-node, see the
[multi-node section][multi-node]

[cagg-mat-hypertables]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/materialized-hypertables
[cagg-window-functions]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/create-a-continuous-aggregate/#use-continuous-aggregates-with-window-functions
[caggs-on-caggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/hierarchical-continuous-aggregates/
[multi-node]: /self-hosted/:currentVersion:/multinode-timescaledb/
[postgres-parallel-agg]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/parallel-plans.html#PARALLEL-AGGREGATION
[real-time-aggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/hierarchical-continuous-aggregates/
[pg-materialized views]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-materializedviews.html
[real-time-aggs]: /se-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/real-time-aggregates/
