timescaledb/tutorials/sample-datasets.md, before:

---
title: Sample datasets
excerpt: Download these sample datasets to start exploring TimescaleDB
---

# Sample datasets
Timescale have created several sample datasets to help you get started using
TimescaleDB. These datasets vary in database size, number of time
intervals, and number of values for the partition field.

Each gzip archive contains a single `.sql` file to create the necessary
hypertables within the database, and several `.csv` files that contain the
data to be copied into those tables. These files presume the database
you are importing them to has already been [set up with the TimescaleDB extension][installation].


**Device ops**: these datasets include metrics such as CPU, memory, and network,
that are collected from mobile devices. Click on the name to download.

*   <tag type="download" >[devices_small](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/devices_small.tar.gz)</tag> 1,000 devices recorded over 1,000 time intervals - 39&nbsp;MB
*   <tag type="download" >[devices_med](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/devices_med.tar.gz)</tag> 5,000 devices recorded over 2,000 time intervals - 390&nbsp;MB
*   <tag type="download" >[devices_big](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/devices_big.tar.gz)</tag> 3,000 devices recorded over 10,000 time intervals - 1.2&nbsp;GB

For more details and example usage, see
[device ops datasets](#in-depth-device-ops-datasets).

**Weather**: these datasets include metrics like temperature and humidity data
from a variety of locations. Click on the name to download.

*   <tag type="download" >[weather_small](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/weather_small.tar.gz)</tag>
    1,000 locations over 1,000 two-minute intervals - 8.1&nbsp;MB
*   <tag type="download" >[weather_med](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/weather_med.tar.gz)</tag>
    1,000 locations over 15,000 two-minute intervals - 115&nbsp;MB
*   <tag type="download" >[weather_big](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/weather_big.tar.gz)</tag>
    2,000 locations over 20,000 two-minute intervals - 305&nbsp;MB

For more details and example usage, see [weather datasets](#in-depth-weather-datasets).

## Importing
<!-- Add steps format-->
Briefly, the import steps are:
1. Setup a database with TimescaleDB.
1. Unzip the archive.
1. Import the `.sql` file to create the hypertables via `psql`.
1. Import the data from `.csv` files via `psql`.

Each dataset has a name in the format of `[dataset]_[size].tar.gz`.
For example, `devices_small.tar.gz` is dataset `devices` and size `small`.
Each dataset contains one `.sql` file named `[dataset].sql` and a few
CSV files named in the format `[dataset]_[size]_[table].csv`.

As an example, if you wanted to import the `devices_small` dataset, it creates
two tables (`device_info` and a hypertable named `readings`) from `devices.sql`.
Therefore, there are two CSV files: `devices_small_readings.csv` and
`devices_small_device_info.csv`. So, to import this dataset into a TimescaleDB
database named `devices_small`:
```bash
# (1) unzip the archive
tar -xvzf devices_small.tar.gz

# (2) import the .sql file to the database
psql -U postgres -d devices_small < devices.sql

# (3) import data from .csv files to the database
psql -U postgres -d devices_small -c "\COPY readings FROM devices_small_readings.csv CSV"
psql -U postgres -d devices_small -c "\COPY device_info FROM devices_small_device_info.csv CSV"
```

The data is now ready for use.

<highlight type="tip">
The standard `COPY` command in PostgreSQL is single threaded. To speed up
importing the larger sample datasets, you can use the
[parallel importer](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-parallel-copy)
instead.
</highlight>

```bash
# To access your database (for example: `devices_small`)
psql -U postgres -h localhost -d devices_small
```

## Device ops datasets
After importing one of these datasets (`devices_small`, `devices_med`,
`devices_big`), you have a plain PostgreSQL table called `device_info` and a
hypertable called `readings`. The `device_info` table has static metadata
about each device, such as the OS name and manufacturer. The `readings`
hypertable tracks data sent from each device, for example CPU activity, or
memory levels. Hypertables are exposed as a single table, so you can query
them and join them with the metadata as you would normal SQL tables, as shown in
the example queries in this section.

#### Schemas
```sql
Table "public.device_info"
Column       | Type | Modifiers
-------------+------+-----------
device_id    | text |
api_version  | text |
manufacturer | text |
model        | text |
os_name      | text |
```

```sql
Table "public.readings"
Column              |       Type       | Modifiers
--------------------+------------------+-----------
time                | bigint           |
device_id           | text             |
battery_level       | double precision |
battery_status      | text             |
battery_temperature | double precision |
bssid               | text             |
cpu_avg_1min        | double precision |
cpu_avg_5min        | double precision |
cpu_avg_15min       | double precision |
mem_free            | double precision |
mem_used            | double precision |
rssi                | double precision |
ssid                | text             |
Indexes:
  "readings_device_id_time_idx" btree (device_id, "time" DESC)
  "readings_time_idx" btree ("time" DESC)
```

#### Example queries
Uses `devices_med` dataset

**10 most recent battery temperature readings for charging devices**
```sql
SELECT time, device_id, battery_temperature
FROM readings
WHERE battery_status = 'charging'
ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 10;

time                   | device_id  | battery_temperature
-----------------------+------------+---------------------
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004887 |                99.3
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004882 |               100.8
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004862 |                95.7
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004844 |                95.5
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004841 |                95.4
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004804 |               101.6
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004784 |               100.6
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004760 |                99.1
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004731 |                97.9
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004729 |                99.6
(10 rows)
```

**Busiest devices (1 min avg) whose battery level is below 33% and is not charging**
```sql
SELECT time, readings.device_id, cpu_avg_1min,
battery_level, battery_status, device_info.model
FROM readings
JOIN device_info ON readings.device_id = device_info.device_id
WHERE battery_level < 33 AND battery_status = 'discharging'
ORDER BY cpu_avg_1min DESC, time DESC LIMIT 5;

time                   | device_id  | cpu_avg_1min | battery_level | battery_status |  model
-----------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+----------------+---------
2016-11-15 23:30:00-05 | demo003764 |        98.99 |            32 | discharging    | focus
2016-11-15 22:54:30-05 | demo001935 |        98.99 |            30 | discharging    | pinto
2016-11-15 19:10:30-05 | demo000695 |        98.99 |            23 | discharging    | focus
2016-11-15 16:46:00-05 | demo002784 |        98.99 |            18 | discharging    | pinto
2016-11-15 14:58:30-05 | demo004978 |        98.99 |            22 | discharging    | mustang
(5 rows)
```

```sql
SELECT date_trunc('hour', time) "hour",
min(battery_level) min_battery_level,
max(battery_level) max_battery_level
FROM readings r
WHERE r.device_id IN (
    SELECT DISTINCT device_id FROM device_info
    WHERE model = 'pinto' OR model = 'focus'
) GROUP BY "hour" ORDER BY "hour" ASC LIMIT 12;

hour                   | min_battery_level | max_battery_level
-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------
2016-11-15 07:00:00-05 |                17 |                99
2016-11-15 08:00:00-05 |                11 |                98
2016-11-15 09:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 10:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 11:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 12:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 13:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 14:00:00-05 |                 6 |                98
2016-11-15 15:00:00-05 |                 6 |               100
2016-11-15 16:00:00-05 |                 6 |               100
2016-11-15 17:00:00-05 |                 6 |               100
2016-11-15 18:00:00-05 |                 6 |               100
(12 rows)
```

---

## Weather datasets
After importing one of these datasets (`weather_small`, `weather_med`,
`weather_big`), you notice a plain PostgreSQL table called `locations` and a
hypertable called `conditions`. The `locations` table has metadata about each of
the locations, such as its name and environmental type. The `conditions`
hypertable tracks readings of temperature and humidity from those locations.
Because hypertables are exposed as a single table, you can query them and join
them with the metadata as you would normal SQL tables, as shown in the example
queries in this section.

#### Schemas
```sql
Table "public.locations"
Column      | Type | Modifiers
------------+------+-----------
device_id   | text |
location    | text |
environment | text |
```

```sql
Table "public.conditions"
Column      |           Type           | Modifiers
------------+--------------------------+-----------
time        | timestamp with time zone | not null
device_id   | text                     |
temperature | double precision         |
humidity    | double precision         |
Indexes:
"conditions_device_id_time_idx" btree (device_id, "time" DESC)
"conditions_time_idx" btree ("time" DESC)
```

#### Example queries
Uses `weather_med` dataset.

**Last ten readings**
```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions c ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 10;

time                   |     device_id      |    temperature     |      humidity
-----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000000 |  84.10000000000034 |  83.70000000000053
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000001 | 35.999999999999915 |  51.79999999999994
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000002 |  68.90000000000006 |  63.09999999999999
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000003 |  83.70000000000041 |  84.69999999999989
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000004 |  83.10000000000039 |  84.00000000000051
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000005 |  85.10000000000034 |  81.70000000000017
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000006 |  61.09999999999999 | 49.800000000000026
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000007 |   82.9000000000004 |  84.80000000000047
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000008 | 58.599999999999966 |               40.2
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000009 | 61.000000000000014 | 49.399999999999906
(10 rows)
```

**Last 10 readings from 'outside' locations**
```sql
SELECT time, c.device_id, location,
trunc(temperature, 2) temperature, trunc(humidity, 2) humidity
FROM conditions c
INNER JOIN locations l ON c.device_id = l.device_id
WHERE l.environment = 'outside'
ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 10;

time                   |     device_id      |   location    | temperature | humidity
-----------------------+--------------------+---------------+-------------+----------
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000000 | field-000000  |       84.10 |    83.70
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000001 | arctic-000000 |       35.99 |    51.79
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000003 | swamp-000000  |       83.70 |    84.69
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000004 | field-000001  |       83.10 |    84.00
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000005 | swamp-000001  |       85.10 |    81.70
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000007 | field-000002  |       82.90 |    84.80
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000014 | field-000003  |       84.50 |    83.90
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000015 | swamp-000002  |       85.50 |    66.00
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000017 | arctic-000001 |       35.29 |    50.59
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000019 | arctic-000002 |       36.09 |    48.80
(10 rows)
```

**Hourly average, min, and max temperatures for "field" locations**
```sql
SELECT date_trunc('hour', time) "hour",
trunc(avg(temperature), 2) avg_temp,
trunc(min(temperature), 2) min_temp,
trunc(max(temperature), 2) max_temp
FROM conditions c
WHERE c.device_id IN (
    SELECT device_id FROM locations
    WHERE location LIKE 'field-%'
) GROUP BY "hour" ORDER BY "hour" ASC LIMIT 24;

hour                   | avg_temp | min_temp | max_temp
-----------------------+----------+----------+----------
2016-11-15 07:00:00-05 |    73.80 |    68.00 |    79.09
2016-11-15 08:00:00-05 |    74.80 |    68.69 |    80.29
2016-11-15 09:00:00-05 |    75.75 |    69.39 |    81.19
2016-11-15 10:00:00-05 |    76.75 |    70.09 |    82.29
2016-11-15 11:00:00-05 |    77.77 |    70.79 |    83.39
2016-11-15 12:00:00-05 |    78.76 |    71.69 |    84.49
2016-11-15 13:00:00-05 |    79.73 |    72.69 |    85.29
2016-11-15 14:00:00-05 |    80.72 |    73.49 |    86.99
2016-11-15 15:00:00-05 |    81.73 |    74.29 |    88.39
2016-11-15 16:00:00-05 |    82.70 |    75.09 |    88.89
2016-11-15 17:00:00-05 |    83.70 |    76.19 |    89.99
2016-11-15 18:00:00-05 |    84.67 |    77.09 |    90.00
2016-11-15 19:00:00-05 |    85.64 |    78.19 |    90.00
2016-11-15 20:00:00-05 |    86.53 |    78.59 |    90.00
2016-11-15 21:00:00-05 |    86.40 |    78.49 |    90.00
2016-11-15 22:00:00-05 |    85.39 |    77.29 |    89.30
2016-11-15 23:00:00-05 |    84.40 |    76.19 |    88.70
2016-11-16 00:00:00-05 |    83.39 |    75.39 |    87.90
2016-11-16 01:00:00-05 |    82.40 |    74.39 |    87.10
2016-11-16 02:00:00-05 |    81.40 |    73.29 |    86.29
2016-11-16 03:00:00-05 |    80.38 |    71.89 |    85.40
2016-11-16 04:00:00-05 |    79.41 |    70.59 |    84.40
2016-11-16 05:00:00-05 |    78.39 |    69.49 |    83.60
2016-11-16 06:00:00-05 |    78.42 |    69.49 |    84.40
(24 rows)
```

[installation]: /install/latest/

Commit message:

Change database names to tsdb (#1393)

timescaledb/tutorials/sample-datasets.md, after:

---
title: Sample datasets
excerpt: Download these sample datasets to start exploring TimescaleDB
---

# Sample datasets

Timescale have created several sample datasets to help you get started using
TimescaleDB. These datasets vary in database size, number of time
intervals, and number of values for the partition field.

Each gzip archive contains a single `.sql` file to create the necessary
hypertables within the database, and several `.csv` files that contain the
data to be copied into those tables. These files presume the database
you are importing them to has already been [set up with the TimescaleDB extension][installation].

**Device ops**: these datasets include metrics such as CPU, memory, and network,
that are collected from mobile devices. Click on the name to download.

*   <tag type="download" >[devices_small](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/devices_small.tar.gz)</tag> 1,000 devices recorded over 1,000 time intervals - 39&nbsp;MB
*   <tag type="download" >[devices_med](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/devices_med.tar.gz)</tag> 5,000 devices recorded over 2,000 time intervals - 390&nbsp;MB
*   <tag type="download" >[devices_big](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/devices_big.tar.gz)</tag> 3,000 devices recorded over 10,000 time intervals - 1.2&nbsp;GB

For more details and example usage, see
[device ops datasets](#in-depth-device-ops-datasets).

**Weather**: these datasets include metrics like temperature and humidity data
from a variety of locations. Click on the name to download.

*   <tag type="download" >[weather_small](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/weather_small.tar.gz)</tag>
    1,000 locations over 1,000 two-minute intervals - 8.1&nbsp;MB
*   <tag type="download" >[weather_med](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/weather_med.tar.gz)</tag>
    1,000 locations over 15,000 two-minute intervals - 115&nbsp;MB
*   <tag type="download" >[weather_big](https://timescaledata.blob.core.windows.net/datasets/weather_big.tar.gz)</tag>
    2,000 locations over 20,000 two-minute intervals - 305&nbsp;MB

For more details and example usage, see [weather datasets](#in-depth-weather-datasets).

## Importing
<!-- Add steps format-->
Briefly, the import steps are:

1.  Setup a database with TimescaleDB.
1.  Unzip the archive.
1.  Import the `.sql` file to create the hypertables via `psql`.
1.  Import the data from `.csv` files via `psql`.

Each dataset has a name in the format of `[dataset]_[size].tar.gz`.
For example, `devices_small.tar.gz` is dataset `devices` and size `small`.
Each dataset contains one `.sql` file named `[dataset].sql` and a few
CSV files named in the format `[dataset]_[size]_[table].csv`.

As an example, if you wanted to import the `devices_small` dataset, it creates
two tables (`device_info` and a hypertable named `readings`) from `devices.sql`.
Therefore, there are two CSV files: `devices_small_readings.csv` and
`devices_small_device_info.csv`. So, to import this dataset into a TimescaleDB
database named `devices_small`:

```bash
# (1) unzip the archive
tar -xvzf devices_small.tar.gz

# (2) import the .sql file to the database
psql -U postgres -d tsdb < devices.sql

# (3) import data from .csv files to the database
psql -U postgres -d tsdb -c "\COPY readings FROM devices_small_readings.csv CSV"
psql -U postgres -d tsdb -c "\COPY device_info FROM devices_small_device_info.csv CSV"
```

The data is now ready for use.

<highlight type="tip">
The standard `COPY` command in PostgreSQL is single threaded. To speed up
importing the larger sample datasets, you can use the
[parallel importer](https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-parallel-copy)
instead.
</highlight>

```bash
# To access your database (for example: `tsdb`)
psql -U postgres -h localhost -d tsdb
```

## Device ops datasets

After importing one of these datasets (`devices_small`, `devices_med`,
`devices_big`), you have a plain PostgreSQL table called `device_info` and a
hypertable called `readings`. The `device_info` table has static metadata
about each device, such as the OS name and manufacturer. The `readings`
hypertable tracks data sent from each device, for example CPU activity, or
memory levels. Hypertables are exposed as a single table, so you can query
them and join them with the metadata as you would normal SQL tables, as shown in
the example queries in this section.

#### Schemas

```sql
Table "public.device_info"
Column       | Type | Modifiers
-------------+------+-----------
device_id    | text |
api_version  | text |
manufacturer | text |
model        | text |
os_name      | text |
```

```sql
Table "public.readings"
Column              |       Type       | Modifiers
--------------------+------------------+-----------
time                | bigint           |
device_id           | text             |
battery_level       | double precision |
battery_status      | text             |
battery_temperature | double precision |
bssid               | text             |
cpu_avg_1min        | double precision |
cpu_avg_5min        | double precision |
cpu_avg_15min       | double precision |
mem_free            | double precision |
mem_used            | double precision |
rssi                | double precision |
ssid                | text             |
Indexes:
  "readings_device_id_time_idx" btree (device_id, "time" DESC)
  "readings_time_idx" btree ("time" DESC)
```

#### Example queries

Uses `devices_med` dataset

**10 most recent battery temperature readings for charging devices**

```sql
SELECT time, device_id, battery_temperature
FROM readings
WHERE battery_status = 'charging'
ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 10;

time                   | device_id  | battery_temperature
-----------------------+------------+---------------------
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004887 |                99.3
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004882 |               100.8
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004862 |                95.7
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004844 |                95.5
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004841 |                95.4
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004804 |               101.6
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004784 |               100.6
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004760 |                99.1
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004731 |                97.9
2016-11-15 23:39:30-05 | demo004729 |                99.6
(10 rows)
```

**Busiest devices (1 min avg) whose battery level is below 33% and is not charging**

```sql
SELECT time, readings.device_id, cpu_avg_1min,
battery_level, battery_status, device_info.model
FROM readings
JOIN device_info ON readings.device_id = device_info.device_id
WHERE battery_level < 33 AND battery_status = 'discharging'
ORDER BY cpu_avg_1min DESC, time DESC LIMIT 5;

time                   | device_id  | cpu_avg_1min | battery_level | battery_status |  model
-----------------------+------------+--------------+---------------+----------------+---------
2016-11-15 23:30:00-05 | demo003764 |        98.99 |            32 | discharging    | focus
2016-11-15 22:54:30-05 | demo001935 |        98.99 |            30 | discharging    | pinto
2016-11-15 19:10:30-05 | demo000695 |        98.99 |            23 | discharging    | focus
2016-11-15 16:46:00-05 | demo002784 |        98.99 |            18 | discharging    | pinto
2016-11-15 14:58:30-05 | demo004978 |        98.99 |            22 | discharging    | mustang
(5 rows)
```

```sql
SELECT date_trunc('hour', time) "hour",
min(battery_level) min_battery_level,
max(battery_level) max_battery_level
FROM readings r
WHERE r.device_id IN (
    SELECT DISTINCT device_id FROM device_info
    WHERE model = 'pinto' OR model = 'focus'
) GROUP BY "hour" ORDER BY "hour" ASC LIMIT 12;

hour                   | min_battery_level | max_battery_level
-----------------------+-------------------+-------------------
2016-11-15 07:00:00-05 |                17 |                99
2016-11-15 08:00:00-05 |                11 |                98
2016-11-15 09:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 10:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 11:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 12:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 13:00:00-05 |                 6 |                97
2016-11-15 14:00:00-05 |                 6 |                98
2016-11-15 15:00:00-05 |                 6 |               100
2016-11-15 16:00:00-05 |                 6 |               100
2016-11-15 17:00:00-05 |                 6 |               100
2016-11-15 18:00:00-05 |                 6 |               100
(12 rows)
```

---

## Weather datasets

After importing one of these datasets (`weather_small`, `weather_med`,
`weather_big`), you notice a plain PostgreSQL table called `locations` and a
hypertable called `conditions`. The `locations` table has metadata about each of
the locations, such as its name and environmental type. The `conditions`
hypertable tracks readings of temperature and humidity from those locations.
Because hypertables are exposed as a single table, you can query them and join
them with the metadata as you would normal SQL tables, as shown in the example
queries in this section.

#### Schemas

```sql
Table "public.locations"
Column      | Type | Modifiers
------------+------+-----------
device_id   | text |
location    | text |
environment | text |
```

```sql
Table "public.conditions"
Column      |           Type           | Modifiers
------------+--------------------------+-----------
time        | timestamp with time zone | not null
device_id   | text                     |
temperature | double precision         |
humidity    | double precision         |
Indexes:
"conditions_device_id_time_idx" btree (device_id, "time" DESC)
"conditions_time_idx" btree ("time" DESC)
```

#### Example queries

Uses `weather_med` dataset.

**Last ten readings**

```sql
SELECT * FROM conditions c ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 10;

time                   |     device_id      |    temperature     |      humidity
-----------------------+--------------------+--------------------+--------------------
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000000 |  84.10000000000034 |  83.70000000000053
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000001 | 35.999999999999915 |  51.79999999999994
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000002 |  68.90000000000006 |  63.09999999999999
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000003 |  83.70000000000041 |  84.69999999999989
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000004 |  83.10000000000039 |  84.00000000000051
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000005 |  85.10000000000034 |  81.70000000000017
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000006 |  61.09999999999999 | 49.800000000000026
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000007 |   82.9000000000004 |  84.80000000000047
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000008 | 58.599999999999966 |               40.2
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000009 | 61.000000000000014 | 49.399999999999906
(10 rows)
```

**Last 10 readings from 'outside' locations**

```sql
SELECT time, c.device_id, location,
trunc(temperature, 2) temperature, trunc(humidity, 2) humidity
FROM conditions c
INNER JOIN locations l ON c.device_id = l.device_id
WHERE l.environment = 'outside'
ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 10;

time                   |     device_id      |   location    | temperature | humidity
-----------------------+--------------------+---------------+-------------+----------
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000000 | field-000000  |       84.10 |    83.70
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000001 | arctic-000000 |       35.99 |    51.79
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000003 | swamp-000000  |       83.70 |    84.69
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000004 | field-000001  |       83.10 |    84.00
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000005 | swamp-000001  |       85.10 |    81.70
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000007 | field-000002  |       82.90 |    84.80
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000014 | field-000003  |       84.50 |    83.90
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000015 | swamp-000002  |       85.50 |    66.00
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000017 | arctic-000001 |       35.29 |    50.59
2016-12-06 02:58:00-05 | weather-pro-000019 | arctic-000002 |       36.09 |    48.80
(10 rows)
```

**Hourly average, min, and max temperatures for "field" locations**

```sql
SELECT date_trunc('hour', time) "hour",
trunc(avg(temperature), 2) avg_temp,
trunc(min(temperature), 2) min_temp,
trunc(max(temperature), 2) max_temp
FROM conditions c
WHERE c.device_id IN (
    SELECT device_id FROM locations
    WHERE location LIKE 'field-%'
) GROUP BY "hour" ORDER BY "hour" ASC LIMIT 24;

hour                   | avg_temp | min_temp | max_temp
-----------------------+----------+----------+----------
2016-11-15 07:00:00-05 |    73.80 |    68.00 |    79.09
2016-11-15 08:00:00-05 |    74.80 |    68.69 |    80.29
2016-11-15 09:00:00-05 |    75.75 |    69.39 |    81.19
2016-11-15 10:00:00-05 |    76.75 |    70.09 |    82.29
2016-11-15 11:00:00-05 |    77.77 |    70.79 |    83.39
2016-11-15 12:00:00-05 |    78.76 |    71.69 |    84.49
2016-11-15 13:00:00-05 |    79.73 |    72.69 |    85.29
2016-11-15 14:00:00-05 |    80.72 |    73.49 |    86.99
2016-11-15 15:00:00-05 |    81.73 |    74.29 |    88.39
2016-11-15 16:00:00-05 |    82.70 |    75.09 |    88.89
2016-11-15 17:00:00-05 |    83.70 |    76.19 |    89.99
2016-11-15 18:00:00-05 |    84.67 |    77.09 |    90.00
2016-11-15 19:00:00-05 |    85.64 |    78.19 |    90.00
2016-11-15 20:00:00-05 |    86.53 |    78.59 |    90.00
2016-11-15 21:00:00-05 |    86.40 |    78.49 |    90.00
2016-11-15 22:00:00-05 |    85.39 |    77.29 |    89.30
2016-11-15 23:00:00-05 |    84.40 |    76.19 |    88.70
2016-11-16 00:00:00-05 |    83.39 |    75.39 |    87.90
2016-11-16 01:00:00-05 |    82.40 |    74.39 |    87.10
2016-11-16 02:00:00-05 |    81.40 |    73.29 |    86.29
2016-11-16 03:00:00-05 |    80.38 |    71.89 |    85.40
2016-11-16 04:00:00-05 |    79.41 |    70.59 |    84.40
2016-11-16 05:00:00-05 |    78.39 |    69.49 |    83.60
2016-11-16 06:00:00-05 |    78.42 |    69.49 |    84.40
(24 rows)
```

[installation]: /install/latest/
