cloud/services/create-a-service.md, before:

# Create a service
Timescale Cloud is a hosted, cloud-native TimescaleDB service that allows you to
quickly spin up new TimescaleDB instances. You can
[try Timescale Cloud for free][sign-up], no credit card required.

For installation instructions, and help getting your first service up and
running, see the [Timescale Cloud installation section][cloud-install].

## Where to next
Now that you have your first service up and running, you can check out the
[Timescale Cloud][tsc-docs] section in our documentation, and
find out what you can do with it.

If you want to work through some tutorials to help you get up and running with
TimescaleDB and time-series data, check out our [tutorials][tutorials] section.

If you're interested in learning more about pricing for Timescale Cloud, visit
the [TimescaleDB pricing calculator][timescale-pricing].

You can always [contact us][contact] if you need help working something out, or
if you want to have a chat.


[sign-up]: https://www.timescale.com/timescale-signup
[timescale-pricing]: https://www.timescale.com/products#cloud-pricing
[contact]: https://www.timescale.com/contact
[tsc-docs]: cloud/:currentVersion:/
[tutorials]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/tutorials/
[cloud-install]: install/:currentVersion:/installation-cloud/

Commit message:

Add notes about number of dbs per cloud service

cloud/services/create-a-service.md, after:

# Create a service
Timescale Cloud is a hosted, cloud-native TimescaleDB service that allows you to
quickly spin up new TimescaleDB instances. You can
[try Timescale Cloud for free][sign-up], no credit card required.

For installation instructions, and help getting your first service up and
running, see the [Timescale Cloud installation section][cloud-install].

You can have one database on each of your Timescale Cloud services. If you try
to create a second database on a service that already has one, you receive an
error like this:

```sql
ERROR:  tsdb_admin: database <DB_NAME> is not an allowed database name
HINT:  Contact your administrator to configure the "tsdb_admin.allowed_databases"
```

To create a second database, you need to create a second service.


## Where to next
Now that you have your first service up and running, you can check out the
[Timescale Cloud][tsc-docs] section in our documentation, and
find out what you can do with it.

If you want to work through some tutorials to help you get up and running with
TimescaleDB and time-series data, check out our [tutorials][tutorials] section.

If you're interested in learning more about pricing for Timescale Cloud, visit
the [TimescaleDB pricing calculator][timescale-pricing].

You can always [contact us][contact] if you need help working something out, or
if you want to have a chat.


[sign-up]: https://www.timescale.com/timescale-signup
[timescale-pricing]: https://www.timescale.com/products#cloud-pricing
[contact]: https://www.timescale.com/contact
[tsc-docs]: cloud/:currentVersion:/
[tutorials]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/tutorials/
[cloud-install]: install/:currentVersion:/installation-cloud/
