use-timescale/members/index.md, before:

---
title: Members
excerpt: User management for your Timescale project
products: [cloud]
keywords: [members, projects, admin, roles]
tags: [users]
cloud_ui:
    path:
        - [members]
---

# Members

When you log in to your [Timescale account][cloud-login], navigate to the
`Members` page to manage users of your project. From here, you can see the
current members of your Timescale project, and add and remove members.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
width={1375} height={944}
src="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tsc-users-list.webp"
alt="Timescale Members"/>

## About Timescale user management

Timescale allows you to collaborate with other users on your projects.
When you have created your project, you can add other users so that they can see
your project in their Timescale console. You can add, manage, and delete
users from the `Members` section of the Cloud console.

You are assigned an `Administrator` role for projects that you create,
and have the ability to add and delete other users, as well as change the
project name. If you have been added to a project, you are assigned a `Member`
role.

[cloud-login]: https://console.cloud.timescale.com/

Commit message:

docs: add docs about project ownership transfer

use-timescale/members/index.md, after:

---
title: Members
excerpt: User management for your Timescale project
products: [cloud]
keywords: [members, projects, admin, roles]
tags: [users]
cloud_ui:
    path:
        - [members]
---

# Members

When you log in to your [Timescale account][cloud-login], navigate to the
`Members` page to manage users of your project. From here, you can see the
current members of your Timescale project, transfer project ownership and add
and remove members.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
width={1375} height={944}
src="https://assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tsc-users-list.webp"
alt="Timescale Members"/>

## About Timescale user management

Timescale allows you to collaborate with other users on your projects.
When you have created your project, you can add other users so that they can see
your project in their Timescale console. You can add, manage, and delete
users from the `Members` section of the Cloud console.

You are assigned an `Owner` role for projects that you create,
and have the ability to add and delete other users, as well as change the
project name. If you have been added to a project, you are assigned a `Member`
role.

If you're the `Owner` and have a two-factor authentication method enabled, you can 
transfer project ownership to another `Member` of the project.

[cloud-login]: https://console.cloud.timescale.com/
