timescaledb/how-to-guides/schema-management/index.md, before:

# Table management

Designing proper table objects is a key part of using PostgreSQL. Creating the
appropriate indexes and table schema for a given workload can result in
significant performance improvements (and conversely, designing the wrong schema
can result in significant performance degradation).

TimescaleDB supports all table objects supported within PostgreSQL, including
data types, indexes, and triggers.

Note that sometimes it is useful to have a flexible schema, in particular when storing
semi-structured data (e.g., storing readings from IoT sensors collecting
varying measurements). For these cases, TimescaleDB also supports the
PostgreSQL JSON and JSONB datatypes.

In this section, we provide detailed examples and best practices of how to
create appropriate indexes, triggers, constraints, and tablespaces on your tables,
as well as how to appropriately utilize the JSON and JSONB datatypes.

<highlight type="tip">
One of the most common ways of getting information about various aspects
of your database is through `psql`, the interactive terminal.  See the
[PostgreSQL docs](https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/static/app-psql.html) for more information.
</highlight>

Commit message:

Update Schema Management How To for new template (#1062)
* Update Schema Management How To for new template

* About indexing (top half)

* Add indexing content

* tablespaces

* Constraints content

* Final edits

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Charis <26616127+charislam@users.noreply.github.com>

* Add index changes

Co-authored-by: Charis <26616127+charislam@users.noreply.github.com>

timescaledb/how-to-guides/schema-management/index.md, after:

# Schema management
A database schema defines how the tables and indexes in your database are
organized. Using a schema that is appropriate for your workload can result in
significant performance improvements.

*   [Learn about schema management][about-schema] to understand how it works
    before you begin using it.
*   [Learn about indexing][about-indexing] to understand how it works before you
    begin using it.
*   [Learn about tablespaces][about-tablespaces] to understand how they work before
    you begin using them.
*   [Learn about constraints][about-constraints] to understand how they work before
    you begin using them.
*   [Alter a hypertable][schema-alter] to modify your schema.
*   [Create an index][schema-indexing] to speed up your queries.
*   [Create triggers][schema-triggers] to propogate your schema changes to chunks.
*   [Use JSON and JSONB][schema-json] for semi-structured data.

[about-schema]: /how-to-guides/schema-management/about-schemas
[about-indexing]: /how-to-guides/schema-management/indexing
[about-constraints]: /how-to-guides/schema-management/constraints
[about-tablespaces]: /how-to-guides/schema-management/tablespaces
[schema-alter]: /how-to-guides/schema-management/alter
[schema-triggers]: /how-to-guides/schema-management/triggers
[schema-json]: /how-to-guides/schema-management/json
[schema-indexing]: /how-to-guides/schema-management/indexing
