use-timescale/migrate-data/index.md, before:

---
title: Data migration
excerpt: Migrate your existing data into TimescaleDB
products: [mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [data migration]
tags: [import]
---

# Data migration

You can migrate your existing data into TimescaleDB in several ways.

*   [Learn about data migration][about-data-migration] before you start
*   Migrate data when TimescaleDB is in the [same PostgreSQL instance][same-db]
    as your existing data
    hypertable
*   Migrate data into TimescaleDB from a [different PostgreSQL database][different-db]
*   [Import data from a `.csv`][import-data] into an empty TimescaleDB
    hypertable
*   Migrate data [from InfluxDB][outflux]

[about-data-migration]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/about-migrate-data/
[different-db]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/different-db/
[import-data]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/import-csv/
[outflux]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/migrate-influxdb/
[same-db]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/same-db/

Commit message:

Minor edits to Migrate section

use-timescale/migrate-data/index.md, after:

---
title: Data migration
excerpt: Migrate your existing data into Timescale
products: [cloud, mst, self_hosted]
keywords: [data migration]
tags: [csv, import, postgresql, influx, outflux]
---

# About data migration

You can migrate time-series data into your Timescale hypertables:

*   For data stored in PostgreSQL, see instructions for:
    *   [Migrating data within the same database][same-db]
    *   [Migrating data from a separate database][different-db]
*   For data stored in a `.csv` file, see instructions for
    [importing data from a `.csv`][import-data].
*   For data stored in InfluxDB, see instructions for
    [migrating data with Outflux][outflux].

If you need to migrate an entire database, see the section on
[database migration][migrate-db] instead.

## Considerations for data migration

For a successful migration, your destination database must have enough free disk
space. In most cases, you need disk space of at least 1.5 times the size of the
original data and any indexes. If your migration method requires decompression,
you should also account for the size of any temporarily decompressed tables. For
more information, see the specific instructions for your use case.

[different-db]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/different-db/
[import-data]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/import-csv/
[mst-to-cloud]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/
[outflux]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/migrate-influxdb/
[same-db]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-data/same-db/
[migrate-db]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/migrate-db/
