mst/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
title: Troubleshooting
excerpt: Troubleshoot your Managed Service for TimescaleDB instance
product: mst
keywords: [troubleshooting]
---

# Troubleshooting

This section covers some common errors or problems you might run into while
using your Managed Service for TimescaleDB account.

## Database is low on disk, memory, or CPU

When your database reaches 90% of your allocated disk, memory, or CPU resources,
an automated message is sent to the email address listed on your account. The
email looks like this:

```txt
Your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service, in project "ExampleAccount", is running low on
CPU. Running low on CPU affects performance and could affect service
availability. Please either optimize your usage pattern or reduce the workload,
and consider upgrading to a larger plan to avoid service outage.
```

You can resolve this by logging in to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
account and increasing your available resources. From the Managed Service for
TimescaleDB Dashboard, select the service that you want to increase resources
for. In the `Overview` tab, locate the `Service Plan` section, and click
`Upgrade Plan`. Select the plan that suits your requirements, and click
`Upgrade` to enable the additional resources.

If you run out of resources regularly, you might need to consider using your
resources more efficiently. Consider enabling [compression][howto-compression],
using [continuous aggregates][howto-caggs], or
[configuring data retention][howto-dataretention] to reduce the amount of
resources your database uses. If you still need help, reach out to our [support
team][timescale-support] to have a conversation.

[howto-compression]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/compression
[howto-caggs]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates
[howto-dataretention]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/data-retention
[timescale-support]: https://www.timescale.com/support

Commit message:

Move changing ownership section from MST Knowledge Base

mst/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
title: Troubleshooting
excerpt: Troubleshoot your Managed Service for TimescaleDB instance
product: mst
keywords: [troubleshooting]
---

# Troubleshooting

This section covers some common errors or problems you might run into while
using your Managed Service for TimescaleDB account.

## Permission denied when changing ownership of tables and hypertables

You might see this error when using the `ALTER TABLE` command to change the
ownership of tables or hypertables:

```bash
ERROR: permission denied for schema _timescaledb_internal
```

This use of `ALTER TABLE` is blocked because the `tsdbadmin` user is not a
superuser.

To change table ownership, use the [`REASSIGN`][sql-reassign] command instead:

```sql
REASSIGN OWNED BY <current_role> TO <desired_role>
```

## Database is low on disk, memory, or CPU

When your database reaches 90% of your allocated disk, memory, or CPU resources,
an automated message is sent to the email address listed on your account. The
email looks like this:

```txt
Your Managed Service for TimescaleDB service, in project "ExampleAccount", is running low on
CPU. Running low on CPU affects performance and could affect service
availability. Please either optimize your usage pattern or reduce the workload,
and consider upgrading to a larger plan to avoid service outage.
```

You can resolve this by logging in to your Managed Service for TimescaleDB
account and increasing your available resources. From the Managed Service for
TimescaleDB Dashboard, select the service that you want to increase resources
for. In the `Overview` tab, locate the `Service Plan` section, and click
`Upgrade Plan`. Select the plan that suits your requirements, and click
`Upgrade` to enable the additional resources.

If you run out of resources regularly, you might need to consider using your
resources more efficiently. Consider enabling [compression][howto-compression],
using [continuous aggregates][howto-caggs], or
[configuring data retention][howto-dataretention] to reduce the amount of
resources your database uses. If you still need help, reach out to our [support
team][timescale-support] to have a conversation.

[howto-compression]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/compression
[howto-caggs]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates
[howto-dataretention]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/data-retention
[sql-reassign]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/sql-reassign-owned.html
[timescale-support]: https://www.timescale.com/support
