promscale/index.md, before:

---
title: Promscale
excerpt: Promscale is the open source observability backend for metrics and traces powered by SQL, built on top of TimescaleDB
product: promscale
---

# Promscale
Promscale is the open source observability backend for metrics and traces
powered by SQL.

It is built on top of PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB. Promscale supports Prometheus metrics and is 100% compliant with PromQL and OpenTelemetry traces.
Its full SQL capabilities enable developers to correlate metrics, traces, and business data to get valuable insights.
This is not possible when data is siloed in different systems.

*   [Quick start Promscale][quick-start] get started with Promscale in no time.
*   [Learn about Promscale][about-promscale] to understand how it works before
    you begin using it.
*   [Learn about Promscale benefits][promscale-benefits] to understand how it
    can be useful in your environment.
*   [Install Promscale][install-promscale] from source, or using Docker and Kubernetes.
*   [Learn about tobs][about-tobs] to understand how to install a complete
    observability stack on Kubernetes.
*   Configure Promscale for [scaling and high availability][scaling-ha].
*   [Send metrics and traces][send-data] to Promscale    
*   Use Promscale to [run queries][query-data].
*   Use Promscale with [visualization tools][visualize-data].

For more about Promscale, see our [developer documentation][promscale-gh-docs].

[about-promscale]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/about-promscale
[about-tobs]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/tobs/
[install-promscale]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/installation
[promscale-benefits]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/promscale-benefits/
[promscale-gh-docs]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/
[query-data]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/query-data/
[quick-start]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/quick-start/
[scaling-ha]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/scale-ha/
[send-data]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/send-data/
[visualize-data]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/visualize-data/

Commit message:

Add call out to promote Timescale Cloud (#1816)
* Add call out to promote Timescale Cloud

* Add call out for Timescale Cloud and update product description with new positioning

* Update signup attribution

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramon Guiu <ramon@timescale.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Signed-off-by: Ramon Guiu <ramon@timescale.com>

* Update Timescale Cloud call out

* Small fix

* fix paragraph line breaks

Signed-off-by: Ramon Guiu <ramon@timescale.com>
Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

promscale/index.md, after:

---
title: Promscale
excerpt: Promscale is the open source observability backend for metrics and traces powered by SQL, built on top of TimescaleDB
product: promscale
---

# Promscale
Promscale is a unified metric and trace observability backend for Prometheus,
Jaeger, and OpenTelemetry. It is built on PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB.

Promscale provides robust and 100% PromQL-compliant Prometheus remote
storage. Promscale is also a certified Jaeger storage backend that is durable
and scalable.

Unlike other observability backends, it has a simple and easy-to-manage
architecture with just two components: the Promscale Connector and the
Promscale database. The Promscale database consists of PostgreSQL with the 
TimescaleDB and Promscale extensions.

<highlight type="cloud" header="Promscale with Timescale Cloud" button="Get started for free"
to="https://console.cloud.timescale.com/signup?campaign=promscale&source=ps-docs-home">
The best way to use Promscale is with Timescale Cloud, a fully hosted and managed
database platform. Enjoy all the best features of Promscale without the hassle
of managing your database. Timescale Cloud provides automatic  backups and failover,
high availability, flexible scaling, security and data compliance, VPC peering, and
much more. Get cost savings of up to 94% compared to managed Prometheus offerings
from AWS, GCP and Grafana.
</highlight>

For more information about using Promscale with Timescale Cloud, see the 
[Promscale installation guide][ptc-install] for details.

*   [Quick start Promscale][quick-start] to get started with Promscale in no time.
*   [Learn about Promscale][about-promscale] to understand how it works before
    you begin using it.
*   [Learn about Promscale benefits][promscale-benefits] to understand how it
    can be useful in your environment.
*   [Install Promscale][install-promscale] from source, or using Docker and Kubernetes.
*   [Learn about tobs][about-tobs] to understand how to install a complete
    observability stack on Kubernetes.
*   Configure Promscale for [scaling and high availability][scaling-ha].
*   [Send metrics and traces][send-data] to Promscale    
*   Use Promscale to [run queries][query-data].
*   Use Promscale with [visualization tools][visualize-data].

For more about Promscale, see our [developer documentation][promscale-gh-docs].

[ptc-install]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/installation/promscale-with-timescale-cloud/
[about-promscale]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/about-promscale
[about-tobs]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/tobs/
[install-promscale]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/installation
[promscale-benefits]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/promscale-benefits/
[promscale-gh-docs]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/
[query-data]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/query-data/
[quick-start]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/quick-start/
[scaling-ha]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/scale-ha/
[send-data]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/send-data/
[visualize-data]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/visualize-data/
