promscale/visualize-data/apm-experience.md, before:

# Application Performance Management (APM) with traces
Promscale provides an APM-like experience with traces data using SQL. Import the 
Grafana dashboards that are published by the Promscale team to get the APM 
with traces.

Before you begin importing APM dashboards:

* Add these data sources in Grafana:
    * [Jaeger data source][promscale-as-jaeger].
    * [PostgreSQL data source][promscale-as-postgresql].   
* Check that the `timescaledb_toolkit` extension is installed.
  To verify if the extension is installed, run this SQL query:
  `SELECT * FROM pg_extension WHERE extname='timescaledb_toolkit';` 
  If the query returns no results, then the extension is not installed. The
  *Install the TimescaleDB toolkit extension* section provides the instructions
  to install the extension.

You can use one of these methods to import APM dashboards:
*  From the Grafana community the dashboards published by Promscale.
*  From Promscale Github repository as JSON files.

## Install the TimescaleDB toolkit extension

<procedure> 

### Installing the TimescaleDB toolkit extension
1. Check if the extension is available:
   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM pg_available_extensions WHERE name='timescaledb_toolkit';
   ```
     If the query returns no results, the extension is not available for installation
     in your database. To make it available follow 
     [these instructions][install-toolkit]. 
1. Install the extension using:
   ```sql
   CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb_toolkit;
   ```

</procedure>

## Import APM dashboards from the Grafana community
[Grafana community dashboards][promscale-grafana-dashboards] contain all the
dashboards published by Promscale. 

<procedure>

### Importing APM dashboards from the Grafana community
1.  In the [Grafana community dashboard][promscale-grafana-dashboards] select 
    the dashboard with `APM` prefix, click the `Details` button to open a dashboard. 
1.  Click `Copy ID to Clipboard` to copy the UID of the dashboard.
1.  In the Grafana UI, select `Import` from the `+` Create icon on the side
    menu.
1.  Paste the dashboard UID in the `Import via grafana.com` textbox, and click
    `Load`. The `Importing dashboard from Grafana.com` page appears.
1.  In  the `Folder` drop-down menu, choose the folder to which you want to add
    the dashboard.
1.  Select the data sources from which you want the dashboard to query the data:
    * For APM dashboards select `TimescaleDB or PostgreSQL data source` as
      `Promscale-SQL`.
    * For APM dashboards select `Promscale Jaeger Tracing data source` as
      `Promscale-Tracing`.
1.  Click `Import`.

</procedure>

## Import dashboards as JSON files.

[Promscale dashboards][promscale-github-dashboards] repository contains all the
dashboards published by Promscale. 

<procedure>

### Importing dashboards as JSON files.
1.  Download all the `.json` files with `apm` prefix from the [Promscale
    dashboards][promscle-github-dashboards] repository.
1.  In the Grafana UI, select `Import` from the `+` Create icon on the side
    menu.
1.  Select the `Upload JSON file` button, and select the downloaded `JSON` dashboard
    file. The `Importing dashboard from Grafana.com` page appears.
1.  In  the `Folder` drop-down menu, choose the folder to which you want to add
    the dashboard.
1.  Select the data sources from which you want the dashboard to query the data:
    * For APM dashboards select `TimescaleDB or PostgreSQL data source` as
      `Promscale-SQL`.
    * For APM dashboards select `Promscale Jaeger Tracing data source` as
      `Promscale-Tracing`.
1.  Click `Import`.

</procedure>

[promscale-grafana-dashboards]: https://grafana.com/orgs/promscale/dashboards
[promscale-as-prometheus]:
    /visualize-data/grafana/#promscale-as-prometheus-datasource
[promscale-as-jaeger]: /visualize-data/grafana/#promscale-as-jaeger-datasource
[promscale-as-postgresql]:
    /visualize-data/grafana/#promscale-as-postgresql-datasource
[install-toolkit]:/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/install-toolkit

Commit message:

[Update] Promscale link fixes (#1100)
* link fixes and procedure tag fixes

* Update promscale/visualize-data/apm-experience.md

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

* incorporated Lana's suggestion

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

promscale/visualize-data/apm-experience.md, after:

# Application Performance Management (APM) with traces
Promscale provides an APM-like experience with traces data using SQL. Import the 
Grafana dashboards that are published by the Promscale team to get the APM 
with traces.

Before you begin importing APM dashboards:

* Add these data sources in Grafana:
    * [Jaeger data source][promscale-as-jaeger]
    * [PostgreSQL data source][promscale-as-postgresql]  
* Check that the `timescaledb_toolkit` extension is installed.
  To verify if the extension is installed, run this SQL query:
  `SELECT * FROM pg_extension WHERE extname='timescaledb_toolkit';` 
  If the query returns no results, then the extension is not installed. For 
  more information about installing the extension, see the 
  [toolkit extension installation documentation][install-extension].

You can use one of these methods to import APM dashboards:
*  From the Grafana community the dashboards published by Promscale.
*  From Promscale Github repository as JSON files.

## Install the TimescaleDB toolkit extension

<procedure> 

### Installing the TimescaleDB toolkit extension
1. Check if the extension is available:
   ```sql
   SELECT * FROM pg_available_extensions WHERE name='timescaledb_toolkit';
   ```
     If the query returns no results, the extension is not available for installation
     in your database. To make it available follow 
     [these instructions][install-toolkit]. 
1. Install the extension using:
   ```sql
   CREATE EXTENSION timescaledb_toolkit;
   ```

</procedure>

## Import APM dashboards from the Grafana community
[Grafana community dashboards][promscale-grafana-dashboards] contain all the
dashboards published by Promscale. 

<procedure>

### Importing APM dashboards from the Grafana community
1.  In the [Grafana community dashboard][promscale-grafana-dashboards] select 
    the dashboard with `APM` prefix, click the `Details` button to open a dashboard. 
1.  Click `Copy ID to Clipboard` to copy the UID of the dashboard.
1.  In the Grafana UI, select `Import` from the `+` Create icon on the side
    menu.
1.  Paste the dashboard UID in the `Import via grafana.com` textbox, and click
    `Load`. The `Importing dashboard from Grafana.com` page appears.
1.  In  the `Folder` drop-down menu, choose the folder to which you want to add
    the dashboard.
1.  Select the data sources from which you want the dashboard to query the data:
    * For APM dashboards select `TimescaleDB or PostgreSQL data source` as
      `Promscale-SQL`.
    * For APM dashboards select `Promscale Jaeger Tracing data source` as
      `Promscale-Tracing`.
1.  Click `Import`.

</procedure>

## Import dashboards as JSON files

[Promscale dashboards][promscale-github-dashboards] repository contains all the
dashboards published by Promscale. 

<procedure>

### Importing dashboards as JSON files
1.  Download all the `.json` files with `apm` prefix from the [Promscale
    dashboards][promscle-github-dashboards] repository.
1.  In the Grafana UI, select `Import` from the `+` Create icon on the side
    menu.
1.  Select the `Upload JSON file` button, and select the downloaded `JSON` dashboard
    file. The `Importing dashboard from Grafana.com` page appears.
1.  In  the `Folder` drop-down menu, choose the folder to which you want to add
    the dashboard.
1.  Select the data sources from which you want the dashboard to query the data:
    * For APM dashboards select `TimescaleDB or PostgreSQL data source` as
      `Promscale-SQL`.
    * For APM dashboards select `Promscale Jaeger Tracing data source` as
      `Promscale-Tracing`.
1.  Click `Import`.

</procedure>

[promscale-grafana-dashboards]: https://grafana.com/orgs/promscale/dashboards
[promscale-as-prometheus]:
    /visualize-data/grafana/#promscale-as-prometheus-datasource
[promscale-as-jaeger]: /visualize-data/grafana/#configure-promscale-as-jaeger-data-source 
[promscale-as-postgresql]:
    /visualize-data/grafana/#configure-promscale-as-a-postgresql-data-source
[install-toolkit]:/timescaledb/latest/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/install-toolkit
[promscale-github-dashboards]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/tree/master/docs/mixin/dashboards
[install-extension]: /promscale/latest/visualize-data/apm-experience/#install-the-timescaledb-toolkit-extension
