promscale/visualize-data/grafana.md, before:

# Connect Promscale and Grafana
Grafana ships with built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, Jaeger, and other data source
plugins that allow you to query and visualize data from a compatible database.
To add a data source in Grafana you must be signed as a user with organization 
administration role privileges.

To connect Grafana with Promscale, install and run Grafana version 5.3 or later.
For information about installing Grafana, see the
[Grafana installation documentation][grafana-install].

This section shows you how to connect Promscale to Prometheus, Jaeger, and
PostgreSQL data sources in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].

## Configure Promscale as Prometheus data source
Prometheus collects and stores metrics as time-series data. To configure
Promscale as Prometheus data source you need the IP address of the Promscale
instance.

<procedure>

### Configuring Promscale as Prometheus data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Prometheus` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-PromQL`.
    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>` is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

When you have configured Promscale as a Prometheus data source in Grafana, you
can create panels that are populated with data using PromQL.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/getting-started-with-promscale-grafana-dashboard.png"
alt="Sample output for PromQl query"/>


## Configure Promscale as Jaeger data source
Jaeger is an open source distributed tracing system used for monitoring and
troubleshooting microservices-based distributed systems. To configure Promscale
as Jaeger data source you need the IP address of the Promscale instance. 

<procedure>

### Configuring Promscale as Jaeger data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Jaeger` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-Jaeger`.
    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>` is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

You can now filter and view traces stored in Promscale using Grafana. To
visualize your traces, click the **Explore** button to see the traces filtering
panel.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/grafana-jaeger-query-results.png"
alt="Sample output for Jaeger query filter in Grafana"/>

## Configure Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source

PostgreSQL is an open source object-relational database system that uses and
extends the SQL language. To configure Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source you
need details such as host, port, database, user, and password of the underlying
TimescaleDB or PostgreSQL database used by Promscale.

<procedure>

### Configuring Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type *PostgreSQL* in the search field and click `Select`. 
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-SQL`.
    *   In the `Host` field, type the IP address or hostname and optional port of
        your TimescaleDB or PostgreSQL instance. 
    *   In the `Database` field, type the name of the PostgreSQL database. The
        default database is `tsdb`.
    *   In the `User`and `Password` fields, type the `user name` and the
        `password` for the database.
    *   In the `TLS/SSL Mode` select `require`. This determines whether or with
        what priority a secure SSL TCP/IP connection is negotiated with the
        server.
    *   In the `TLS/SSL Method` select `file system path`. This determines
        whether the SSL Auth details are configured as a file path or file
        content.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.
    *   In the `PostgreSQL details` section, enable `TimescaleDB`. Grafana uses
        `time_bucket` in the `$__timeGroup` macro to display TimescaleDB
        specific aggregate functions in the query builder.

</procedure>

You can now create panels that use Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source, using
SQL queries to feed the chart.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/grafana-sql-query-results.png"
alt="Sample output for SQL query in Grafana"/>

[grafana-homepage]: https://grafana.com/
[grafana-docker]:
    https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/docker/#install-official-and-community-grafana-plugins
[grafana-install]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/

Commit message:

[Promscale] Continue adding frontmatter (#1306)
Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Co-authored-by: Rajakavitha Kodhandapani <krajakavitha@gmail.com>

promscale/visualize-data/grafana.md, after:

---
title: Connect Promscale and Grafana
excerpt: Grafana to visualize data in Promscale
product: promscale
keywords: [Grafana]
tags: [configure, prometheus, metrics]
---

# Connect Promscale and Grafana
Grafana ships with built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, Jaeger, and other data source
plugins that allow you to query and visualize data from a compatible database.
To add a data source in Grafana you must be signed as a user with organization 
administration role privileges.

To connect Grafana with Promscale, install and run Grafana version 5.3 or later.
For information about installing Grafana, see the
[Grafana installation documentation][grafana-install].

This section shows you how to connect Promscale to Prometheus, Jaeger, and
PostgreSQL data sources in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].

## Configure Promscale as Prometheus data source
Prometheus collects and stores metrics as time-series data. To configure
Promscale as Prometheus data source you need the IP address of the Promscale
instance.

<procedure>

### Configuring Promscale as Prometheus data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Prometheus` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-PromQL`.
    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>` is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

When you have configured Promscale as a Prometheus data source in Grafana, you
can create panels that are populated with data using PromQL.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/getting-started-with-promscale-grafana-dashboard.png"
alt="Sample output for PromQl query"/>


## Configure Promscale as Jaeger data source
Jaeger is an open source distributed tracing system used for monitoring and
troubleshooting microservices-based distributed systems. To configure Promscale
as Jaeger data source you need the IP address of the Promscale instance. 

<procedure>

### Configuring Promscale as Jaeger data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `Jaeger` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-Jaeger`.
    *   In the `URL` field, type `http://<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>:9201`, where
        `<PROMSCALE-IP-ADDR>` is the IP address of the Promscale instance.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.

</procedure>

You can now filter and view traces stored in Promscale using Grafana. To
visualize your traces, click the **Explore** button to see the traces filtering
panel.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/grafana-jaeger-query-results.png"
alt="Sample output for Jaeger query filter in Grafana"/>

## Configure Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source

PostgreSQL is an open source object-relational database system that uses and
extends the SQL language. To configure Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source you
need details such as host, port, database, user, and password of the underlying
TimescaleDB or PostgreSQL database used by Promscale.

<procedure>

### Configuring Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type *PostgreSQL* in the search field and click `Select`. 
1.  Configure the data source settings:
    *   In the `Name` field, type `Promscale-SQL`.
    *   In the `Host` field, type the IP address or hostname and optional port of
        your TimescaleDB or PostgreSQL instance. 
    *   In the `Database` field, type the name of the PostgreSQL database. The
        default database is `tsdb`.
    *   In the `User`and `Password` fields, type the `user name` and the
        `password` for the database.
    *   In the `TLS/SSL Mode` select `require`. This determines whether or with
        what priority a secure SSL TCP/IP connection is negotiated with the
        server.
    *   In the `TLS/SSL Method` select `file system path`. This determines
        whether the SSL Auth details are configured as a file path or file
        content.
    *   Use the default values for all other settings.
    *   In the `PostgreSQL details` section, enable `TimescaleDB`. Grafana uses
        `time_bucket` in the `$__timeGroup` macro to display TimescaleDB
        specific aggregate functions in the query builder.

</procedure>

You can now create panels that use Promscale as a PostgreSQL data source, using
SQL queries to feed the chart.

<img class="main-content__illustration"
src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/images/misc/grafana-sql-query-results.png"
alt="Sample output for SQL query in Grafana"/>

[grafana-homepage]: https://grafana.com/
[grafana-docker]:
    https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/docker/#install-official-and-community-grafana-plugins
[grafana-install]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/
