promscale/send-data/zipkin.md, before:

---
title: Send Zipkin traces to Promscale
excerpt: Send Zipkin traces to Promscale
product: promscale
keywords: [Zipkin]
tags: [configure, traces]
---

# Send Zipkin traces to Promscale
Promscale natively supports the OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) for 
traces. To ingest Zipkin traces to Promscale, use the OpenTelemetry Collector.
The OpenTelemetry Collector converts the Zipkin traces to OpenTelemetry traces.

# Send data using the OpenTelemetry Collector
You can configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to forward Zipkin traces to
Promscale using [Zipkin receiver][zipkin-receiver] and the OpenTelemetry 
exporter.

Here's an example configuration file for the OpenTelemetry Collector to forward
traces to Promscale after batch processing the data:

```yaml
receivers:
  zipkin:
exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: "<PROMSCALE_HOST>:<gRPC_PORT>"
    tls:
      insecure: true
    sending_queue:
      queue_size: 1000000
    timeout: 10s
processors:
  batch:
    send_batch_size: 4000
    send_batch_max_size: 4000
    timeout: 10s
service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [zipkin]
      exporters: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
```

Where: 
* `<PROMSCALE_HOST>`: hostname of Promscale.
* `<gRPC_PORT>`: gRPC port of Promscale. The default port is 9202.

If you are running the OTLP Collector and the Promscale Connector on a
Kubernetes cluster, the endpoint parameter is similar to `endpoint:
"promscale-connector.default.svc.cluster.local:<PORT>"`

The default port exposed by the OpenTelemetry Collector Zipkin receiver is `9411`.
This is the port where you should send your Zipkin traces. 

For more information about OpenTelemetry Collector, see the 
[OpenTelemetry documentation][otelcol-docs].

[otelcol-docs]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/
[zipkin-receiver]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/zipkinreceiver#zipkin-receiver

Commit message:

Add promscale deprecation notice (#2009)
* Add promscale deprecation notice

* Add notice to tshooting entries

* fix broken header

promscale/send-data/zipkin.md, after:

---
title: Send Zipkin traces to Promscale
excerpt: Send Zipkin traces to Promscale
product: promscale
keywords: [Zipkin]
tags: [configure, traces]
---

import PromscaleDeprecation from "versionContent/_partials/_deprecated-promscale.mdx";

# Send Zipkin traces to Promscale

<PromscaleDeprecation />

Promscale natively supports the OpenTelemetry Protocol (OTLP) for
traces. To ingest Zipkin traces to Promscale, use the OpenTelemetry Collector.
The OpenTelemetry Collector converts the Zipkin traces to OpenTelemetry traces.

# Send data using the OpenTelemetry Collector

You can configure the OpenTelemetry Collector to forward Zipkin traces to
Promscale using [Zipkin receiver][zipkin-receiver] and the OpenTelemetry
exporter.

Here's an example configuration file for the OpenTelemetry Collector to forward
traces to Promscale after batch processing the data:

```yaml
receivers:
  zipkin:
exporters:
  otlp:
    endpoint: "<PROMSCALE_HOST>:<gRPC_PORT>"
    tls:
      insecure: true
    sending_queue:
      queue_size: 1000000
    timeout: 10s
processors:
  batch:
    send_batch_size: 4000
    send_batch_max_size: 4000
    timeout: 10s
service:
  pipelines:
    traces:
      receivers: [zipkin]
      exporters: [otlp]
      processors: [batch]
```

Where:

*   `<PROMSCALE_HOST>`: hostname of Promscale.
*   `<gRPC_PORT>`: gRPC port of Promscale. The default port is 9202.

If you are running the OTLP Collector and the Promscale Connector on a
Kubernetes cluster, the endpoint parameter is similar to `endpoint:
"promscale-connector.default.svc.cluster.local:<PORT>"`

The default port exposed by the OpenTelemetry Collector Zipkin receiver is `9411`.
This is the port where you should send your Zipkin traces.

For more information about OpenTelemetry Collector, see the
[OpenTelemetry documentation][otelcol-docs].

[otelcol-docs]: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/collector/
[zipkin-receiver]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-collector-contrib/tree/main/receiver/zipkinreceiver#zipkin-receiver
