promscale/downsample-data/caggs.md, before:

---
title: Continuous aggregates in Promscale
excerpt: Use continuous aggregates to downsample and materialize your Promscale data
product: promscale
keywords: [continuous aggregates, downsample]
tags: [recording]
---

# Continuous aggregates in Promscale
Promscale can use [TimescaleDB continuous aggregates][tsdb-caggs] to manage data
downsampling and materialization.

<highlight type="warning">
This feature is currently in development. Use this feature at your own risk, and
do not use any experimental features in production. Help us improve Promscale by
[sharing feedback](https://github.com/timescale/promscale/discussions/828) and
[reporting issues](https://github.com/timescale/promscale/issues/new).
</highlight>

Benefits of continuous aggregates:
*   Timeliness: continuous aggregates use real-time aggregates by default. The
    database automatically combines the materialized results with a query over
    the newest not-yet-materialized data to provide an accurate up-to-the-second
    view of your data.
*   Rollups: continuous aggregates store the intermediate state of an aggregate
    in the materialization, making further rollups possible. For more information
    about defining aggregates, see this
    [blog post](https://blog.timescale.com/blog/how-postgresql-aggregation-works-and-how-it-inspired-our-hyperfunctions-design-2/).
*   Query flexibility for retrospective analysis: continuous aggregates are
    multi-purpose. For example, the TimescaleDB toolkit extension supports
    percentile queries on any percentile, and statistical aggregates with
    multiple summary aggregates. The aggregates that you define when you
    configure the materialization allow you to derive a range of different data 
    types at query time.
*   Backfilling: continuous aggregates automatically downsample all data
    available, including past data, so that performance improvements on the
    aggregated metric are seen as soon as it is created.  


For Promscale to be able to use a continuous aggregate as a metric view, the
continuous aggregate must:

*   Be based on a raw metric series ingested by Promscale that is specified in
    the `FROM` clause.
*   Include a column named `time` of type `timestamptz`, that corresponds to the
    time associated with each aggregated metric sample.
*   Include a column named `series_id` of type `bigint`,  that corresponds to
    the `series_id`  from the raw metrics.
*   Any number of additional columns of type `double precision`, that correspond
    to the metric values you want to store.

<highlight type="important">
Continuous aggregates supports only one metric in the `FROM` clause, and can
generate aggregations only within the same `series_id`. This is because
the `series_id` corresponds to a specific metric name and set of labels.
</highlight>

For more information about continuous aggregates, see the
[TimescaleDB continuous aggregates documentation][tsdb-caggs].

### Example of a Promscale continuous aggregate
Creating a continuous aggregate in Promscale requires two operations. Start by
creating a TimescaleDB continuous aggregate, and then register the new metric so
it's available to PromQL queries and other Promscale functions. This section
includes a worked example.

This example uses a metric called `node_memory_MemFree`, and shows you how to
create a continuous aggregate to derive some summary statistics about the metric
on an hourly basis. Run this query on the underlying TimescaleDB database:
```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW node_memfree_1hour
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT
        timezone('UTC', 
          time_bucket('1 hour', time) AT TIME ZONE 'UTC' +'1 hour')  
            as time, 
        series_id,
        min(value) as min,
        max(value) as max,
        avg(value) as avg
    FROM prom_data.node_memory_MemFree
    GROUP BY time_bucket('1 hour', time), series_id
```

<highlight type="note">
In this example, one hour is added to `time_bucket` in the
`SELECT` clause. This is done to match the PromQL semantics of representing a
bucket with the timestamp at the end of the bucket instead of the start of the
bucket.
</highlight>

This continuous aggregate can now be queried using SQL. To make it possible to
query the data with PromQL, you need to register it with Promscale as a metric
view, including the view schema and the view name in Postgres:
```sql
SELECT register_metric_view('public', 'node_memfree_1hour');
```

You can now use this data as a regular metric in both SQL and PromQL.

To query the average in the new aggregated metric with SQL, and show it in a
time series chart in Grafana, use this query:
```sql
SELECT time, jsonb(labels) as metric, avg
FROM node_memfree_1hour m
INNER JOIN prom_series.node_memory_MemFree s 
    ON (m.series_id=s.series_id)
WHERE $__timeFilter(time)
ORDER BY time asc
```

The join with the original metric is currently required in SQL queries to 
retrieve the labels for a specific series.


To do the same with PromQL, you need to use the `__column__` label. The
aggregated metric stores the data for `min`, `max`, and `avg` in different
columns, which is not supported by Prometheus, because Prometheus stores all
metrics independently. Promscale uses the `__column__` label to identify which
column to return. If no `__column__` label is specified, Promscale returns the
`value` column by default. To query the average in the new aggregated metric
with PromQL, use this query:
```promql
node_memfree_1hour{__column__="avg"}
```

You do not need to specify the `__column__` label in queries, because Promscale
uses the value column by default when ingesting data.

You could modify this continuous aggregate to name one of the metrics `value`,
which would then make Promscale return that metric even if no `__column__` label
is specified. To do this with the previous example, you can create a continuous
aggregate that sets the average as the default to be returned in PromQL queries,
like this:
```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW node_memfree_1hour
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT
        timezone('UTC', 
          time_bucket('1 hour', time) AT TIME ZONE 'UTC' +'1 hour')  
            as time, 
        series_id,
        min(value) as min,
        max(value) as max,
        avg(value) as value
    FROM prom_data.node_memory_MemFree
    GROUP BY time_bucket('1 hour', time), series_id
```

Now you can query the average without the `__column__` label, like this:
```promql
node_memfree_1hour
```

Promscale adds a `__schema__` tag, which helps you identify in which schema the metric view is registered. This is useful if you have two metrics with the same name in different schemas, which is strongly discouraged but could happen by mistake. In this case, you can use the `__schema__` tag to select which schema to use. If you don't specify a schema, Promscale queries the metric in the `prom_data` schema, which is the same schema used for all ingested metrics. To avoid those issues, make sure you name your continuous aggregate views in a way that is different to your raw ingested metrics, for example, `node_memfree_1hour`.

<highlight type="note">
Both the `__schema__` and `__column__` label matchers support exact matching. You cannot use regular expressions or other multi-value matchers. Additionally, metric views are excluded from queries that match multiple metrics, such as matching on metric names with a regular expression, like this:

```sql
{__name__=~"node_mem*"} // this valid PromQL query will not match our previously created metric view
```

</highlight>

### Deleting continuous aggregates
To delete a Promscale continuous aggregate, delete the metric view first, and
then remove the continuous aggregate.

Remove the metric view:
```sql
SELECT unregister_metric_view('public', 'node_memfree_1hour');
```

Delete the continuous aggregate:
```sql
DROP MATERIALIZED VIEW node_memfree_1hour;
```

## Data retention
All metrics in Promscale use the default retention period when they are created.
You can change both the default retention period, and the retention period for
individual metrics. This feature is provided by Promscale, not Prometheus. A
typical use case is to retain aggregated metrics for longer for trend analysis.

For more information about data retention, see the
[metric retention section][retention].

[retention]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/manage-data/retention/
[tsdb-caggs]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/overview/core-concepts/continuous-aggregates/

Commit message:

Add promscale deprecation notice (#2009)
* Add promscale deprecation notice

* Add notice to tshooting entries

* fix broken header

promscale/downsample-data/caggs.md, after:

---
title: Continuous aggregates in Promscale
excerpt: Use continuous aggregates to downsample and materialize your Promscale data
product: promscale
keywords: [continuous aggregates, downsample]
tags: [recording]
---

import PromscaleDeprecation from "versionContent/_partials/_deprecated-promscale.mdx";

# Continuous aggregates in Promscale

<PromscaleDeprecation />

Promscale can use [TimescaleDB continuous aggregates][tsdb-caggs] to manage data
downsampling and materialization.

<highlight type="warning">
This feature is currently in development. Use this feature at your own risk, and
do not use any experimental features in production. Help us improve Promscale by
[sharing feedback](https://github.com/timescale/promscale/discussions/828) and
[reporting issues](https://github.com/timescale/promscale/issues/new).
</highlight>

Benefits of continuous aggregates:

*   Timeliness: continuous aggregates use real-time aggregates by default. The
    database automatically combines the materialized results with a query over
    the newest not-yet-materialized data to provide an accurate up-to-the-second
    view of your data.
*   Rollups: continuous aggregates store the intermediate state of an aggregate
    in the materialization, making further rollups possible. For more information
    about defining aggregates, see this
    [blog post](https://blog.timescale.com/blog/how-postgresql-aggregation-works-and-how-it-inspired-our-hyperfunctions-design-2/).
*   Query flexibility for retrospective analysis: continuous aggregates are
    multi-purpose. For example, the TimescaleDB toolkit extension supports
    percentile queries on any percentile, and statistical aggregates with
    multiple summary aggregates. The aggregates that you define when you
    configure the materialization allow you to derive a range of different data
    types at query time.
*   Backfilling: continuous aggregates automatically downsample all data
    available, including past data, so that performance improvements on the
    aggregated metric are seen as soon as it is created.

For Promscale to be able to use a continuous aggregate as a metric view, the
continuous aggregate must:

*   Be based on a raw metric series ingested by Promscale that is specified in
    the `FROM` clause.
*   Include a column named `time` of type `timestamptz`, that corresponds to the
    time associated with each aggregated metric sample.
*   Include a column named `series_id` of type `bigint`,  that corresponds to
    the `series_id`  from the raw metrics.
*   Any number of additional columns of type `double precision`, that correspond
    to the metric values you want to store.

<highlight type="important">
Continuous aggregates supports only one metric in the `FROM` clause, and can
generate aggregations only within the same `series_id`. This is because
the `series_id` corresponds to a specific metric name and set of labels.
</highlight>

For more information about continuous aggregates, see the
[TimescaleDB continuous aggregates documentation][tsdb-caggs].

### Example of a Promscale continuous aggregate

Creating a continuous aggregate in Promscale requires two operations. Start by
creating a TimescaleDB continuous aggregate, and then register the new metric so
it's available to PromQL queries and other Promscale functions. This section
includes a worked example.

This example uses a metric called `node_memory_MemFree`, and shows you how to
create a continuous aggregate to derive some summary statistics about the metric
on an hourly basis. Run this query on the underlying TimescaleDB database:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW node_memfree_1hour
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT
        timezone('UTC',
          time_bucket('1 hour', time) AT TIME ZONE 'UTC' +'1 hour')
            as time,
        series_id,
        min(value) as min,
        max(value) as max,
        avg(value) as avg
    FROM prom_data.node_memory_MemFree
    GROUP BY time_bucket('1 hour', time), series_id
```

<highlight type="note">
In this example, one hour is added to `time_bucket` in the
`SELECT` clause. This is done to match the PromQL semantics of representing a
bucket with the timestamp at the end of the bucket instead of the start of the
bucket.
</highlight>

This continuous aggregate can now be queried using SQL. To make it possible to
query the data with PromQL, you need to register it with Promscale as a metric
view, including the view schema and the view name in Postgres:

```sql
SELECT register_metric_view('public', 'node_memfree_1hour');
```

You can now use this data as a regular metric in both SQL and PromQL.

To query the average in the new aggregated metric with SQL, and show it in a
time series chart in Grafana, use this query:

```sql
SELECT time, jsonb(labels) as metric, avg
FROM node_memfree_1hour m
INNER JOIN prom_series.node_memory_MemFree s
    ON (m.series_id=s.series_id)
WHERE $__timeFilter(time)
ORDER BY time asc
```

The join with the original metric is currently required in SQL queries to
retrieve the labels for a specific series.

To do the same with PromQL, you need to use the `__column__` label. The
aggregated metric stores the data for `min`, `max`, and `avg` in different
columns, which is not supported by Prometheus, because Prometheus stores all
metrics independently. Promscale uses the `__column__` label to identify which
column to return. If no `__column__` label is specified, Promscale returns the
`value` column by default. To query the average in the new aggregated metric
with PromQL, use this query:

```promql
node_memfree_1hour{__column__="avg"}
```

You do not need to specify the `__column__` label in queries, because Promscale
uses the value column by default when ingesting data.

You could modify this continuous aggregate to name one of the metrics `value`,
which would then make Promscale return that metric even if no `__column__` label
is specified. To do this with the previous example, you can create a continuous
aggregate that sets the average as the default to be returned in PromQL queries,
like this:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW node_memfree_1hour
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT
        timezone('UTC',
          time_bucket('1 hour', time) AT TIME ZONE 'UTC' +'1 hour')
            as time,
        series_id,
        min(value) as min,
        max(value) as max,
        avg(value) as value
    FROM prom_data.node_memory_MemFree
    GROUP BY time_bucket('1 hour', time), series_id
```

Now you can query the average without the `__column__` label, like this:

```promql
node_memfree_1hour
```

Promscale adds a `__schema__` tag, which helps you identify in which schema the metric view is registered. This is useful if you have two metrics with the same name in different schemas, which is strongly discouraged but could happen by mistake. In this case, you can use the `__schema__` tag to select which schema to use. If you don't specify a schema, Promscale queries the metric in the `prom_data` schema, which is the same schema used for all ingested metrics. To avoid those issues, make sure you name your continuous aggregate views in a way that is different to your raw ingested metrics, for example, `node_memfree_1hour`.

<highlight type="note">
Both the `__schema__` and `__column__` label matchers support exact matching. You cannot use regular expressions or other multi-value matchers. Additionally, metric views are excluded from queries that match multiple metrics, such as matching on metric names with a regular expression, like this:

```sql
{__name__=~"node_mem*"} // this valid PromQL query will not match our previously created metric view
```

</highlight>

### Deleting continuous aggregates

To delete a Promscale continuous aggregate, delete the metric view first, and
then remove the continuous aggregate.

Remove the metric view:

```sql
SELECT unregister_metric_view('public', 'node_memfree_1hour');
```

Delete the continuous aggregate:

```sql
DROP MATERIALIZED VIEW node_memfree_1hour;
```

## Data retention

All metrics in Promscale use the default retention period when they are created.
You can change both the default retention period, and the retention period for
individual metrics. This feature is provided by Promscale, not Prometheus. A
typical use case is to retain aggregated metrics for longer for trend analysis.

For more information about data retention, see the
[metric retention section][retention].

[retention]: /promscale/:currentVersion:/manage-data/retention/
[tsdb-caggs]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/overview/core-concepts/continuous-aggregates/
