promscale/installation/binary.md, before:

---
title: Install Promscale from binary
excerpt: Install Promscale from source on bare metal
product: promscale
keywords: [analytics]
tags: [install]
related_pages:
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/guides/resource-recomm/
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/send-data/
---

# Install Promscale from binary
You can install Promscale from a pre-complied binary on any operating systems. The
Promscale binary file is available at [GitHub releases page][gh-promscale-download].

Before you begin, you must have an already installed and working Prometheus or
OpenTelemetry collector environment.

## Install TimescaleDB and Promscale extension
To use Promscale, you need a TimescaleDB database, as well as the Promscale
extension. The Promscale extension contains support functions to improve
performance of Promscale.

<procedure>

### Compiling and installing TimescaleDB

1.  Install TimescaleDB following the instructions in the 
    [TimescaleDB install page][tsdb-install-self-hosted]
1.  Compile and install the Promscale extension from source that is available on
    the [Promscale extension page][promscale-extension]

</procedure>

## Install the Promscale pre-compiled binary
Download the Promscale binary file and run the file.

<procedure>

### Installing Promscale from binary
1.  At the command prompt, as a root user, download the appropriate file
    for your operating system (get the URL from the [GitHub repository releases page][releases]):
    ```bash
    curl -L -o promscale https://github.com/timescale/promscale/releases/download/<VERSION>/<PROMSCALE_DISTRIBUTION>
    ```
1.  Grant executable permissions to the `promscale` directory:
    ```bash
    chmod +x promscale
    ```
1.  Run Promscale by providing the connection details for your TimescaleDB
    service:
    ```bash
    ./promscale --db-host <DB_HOSTNAME> --db-port <DB_PORT> --db-name <DBNAME> --db-password <DBPASSWORD> --db-ssl-mode allow
    ```

    <highlight type="note">
    In this example, Promscale is deployed with SSL allowed but not required. If
    you need SSL mode enabled, configure your TimescaleDB instance with SSL
    certificates and do not use `--db-ssl-mode` flag. Promscale authenticates
    using SSL by default.
    </highlight>

</procedure>

[gh-promscale-download]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/releases
[promscale-extension]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale_extension#promscale-extension
[releases]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/releases/
[tsdb-install-self-hosted]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/install-timescaledb/self-hosted/

Commit message:

Add promscale deprecation notice (#2009)
* Add promscale deprecation notice

* Add notice to tshooting entries

* fix broken header

promscale/installation/binary.md, after:

---
title: Install Promscale from binary
excerpt: Install Promscale from source on bare metal
product: promscale
keywords: [analytics]
tags: [install]
related_pages:
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/guides/resource-recomm/
  - /promscale/:currentVersion:/send-data/
---

import PromscaleDeprecation from "versionContent/_partials/_deprecated-promscale.mdx";

# Install Promscale from binary

<PromscaleDeprecation />

You can install Promscale from a pre-complied binary on any operating systems. The
Promscale binary file is available at [GitHub releases page][gh-promscale-download].

Before you begin, you must have an already installed and working Prometheus or
OpenTelemetry collector environment.

## Install TimescaleDB and Promscale extension

To use Promscale, you need a TimescaleDB database, as well as the Promscale
extension. The Promscale extension contains support functions to improve
performance of Promscale.

<procedure>

### Compiling and installing TimescaleDB

1.  Install TimescaleDB following the instructions in the
    [TimescaleDB install page][tsdb-install-self-hosted]
1.  Compile and install the Promscale extension from source that is available on
    the [Promscale extension page][promscale-extension]

</procedure>

## Install the Promscale pre-compiled binary

Download the Promscale binary file and run the file.

<procedure>

### Installing Promscale from binary

1.  At the command prompt, as a root user, download the appropriate file
    for your operating system (get the URL from the [GitHub repository releases page][releases]):

    ```bash
    curl -L -o promscale https://github.com/timescale/promscale/releases/download/<VERSION>/<PROMSCALE_DISTRIBUTION>
    ```

1.  Grant executable permissions to the `promscale` directory:

    ```bash
    chmod +x promscale
    ```

1.  Run Promscale by providing the connection details for your TimescaleDB
    service:

    ```bash
    ./promscale --db-host <DB_HOSTNAME> --db-port <DB_PORT> --db-name <DBNAME> --db-password <DBPASSWORD> --db-ssl-mode allow
    ```

    <highlight type="note">
    In this example, Promscale is deployed with SSL allowed but not required. If
    you need SSL mode enabled, configure your TimescaleDB instance with SSL
    certificates and do not use `--db-ssl-mode` flag. Promscale authenticates
    using SSL by default.
    </highlight>

</procedure>

[gh-promscale-download]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/releases
[promscale-extension]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale_extension#promscale-extension
[releases]: https://github.com/timescale/promscale/releases/
[tsdb-install-self-hosted]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/install-timescaledb/self-hosted/
