cloud/service-operations/general.md, before:

# Services operations - General
In the `General` section of the Operations dashboard, you can fork your service,
reset the password, pause, or terminate the service.

### Fork a service
When you a fork a service, you create an exact copy of the service, including
the underlying database. This allows you to create a copy that you can use for
testing purposes, or to prepare for a major version upgrade. The only difference
between the original and the forked service is that the `tsdbadmin` user has a
different password.

<highlight type="important">
You can fork services that have a status of `Running` or `Paused`. You cannot
fork services while they have a status of `In progress`. Wait for the service to
complete the transition before you start forking.
</highlight>

<highlight type="warning">
Forks only have data up to the point when the original service was forked. Any
data written to the original service after the time of forking does not appear 
in the fork. If you want the fork to assume operations from the original
service, pause your main service before forking to avoid any
data discrepancy between services.
</highlight>

<procedure>

### Forking a service
1.  In the Timescale Cloud console, from the `Services` list, ensure the service you want to form has a status of `Running` or `Paused`, then click the name of
    the service you want to fork.
1.  Navigate to the `Operations` tab.
1.  In the `General` section, click `Fork service`. In the dialog, confirm by
    clicking `Fork service`. The forked service takes a few minutes to start.
1.  To change the configuration of your fork, click
    `Advanced options`. You can set different compute and
    storage options, separate from your original database.
1.  The forked service shows in the `Services` dashboard with a label stating
    which service it has been forked from.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tsc-forked-service.png" alt="Fork a Timescale Cloud service"/>

</procedure>

### Reset service password
You can reset your service password from the `Operations` dashboard. This is the
password you use to connect to your database, not the password to your Timescale
Cloud account. To reset your Timescale Cloud password, navigate to the `Account`
page.

When you reset your service password, you are prompted for your Timescale
Cloud password. When you have authenticated, you can create a new service password,
ask Timescale Cloud to auto-generate a password, or switch your authentication
type between SCRAM and MD5.

SCRAM (Salted Challenge Response Authentication Mechanism) and MD5 (Message Digest
Algorithm 5) are cryptographic authentication mechanisms. Timescale Cloud uses SCRAM
by default. It is more secure and strongly recommended. The MD5 option is provided
for compatibility with older clients.

### Pause service
You can pause a service if you want to stop it running temporarily. This stops
your service from costing you, but the service is still available and ready to
be restarted at any time.

### Terminate a service
You can terminate a service to delete it completely. This removes the service
and its underlying data from the server. You cannot recover a terminated
service.

Commit message:

Add details for Cloud forking

cloud/service-operations/general.md, after:

# Services operations - General
In the `General` section of the Operations dashboard, you can fork your service,
reset the password, pause, or terminate the service.

### Fork a service
When you a fork a service, you create an exact copy of the service, including
the underlying database. This allows you to create a copy that you can use for
testing purposes, or to prepare for a major version upgrade. The only difference
between the original and the forked service is that the `tsdbadmin` user has a
different password.

The fork is created by restoring from backup and applying the Write-Ahead Log.
The data is fetched from Amazon S3, so forking doesn't tax the running instance.

<highlight type="important">
You can fork services that have a status of `Running` or `Paused`. You cannot
fork services while they have a status of `In progress`. Wait for the service to
complete the transition before you start forking.
</highlight>

<highlight type="warning">
Forks only have data up to the point when the original service was forked. Any
data written to the original service after the time of forking does not appear 
in the fork. If you want the fork to assume operations from the original
service, pause your main service before forking to avoid any
data discrepancy between services.
</highlight>

<procedure>

### Forking a service
1.  In the Timescale Cloud console, from the `Services` list, ensure the service you want to form has a status of `Running` or `Paused`, then click the name of
    the service you want to fork.
1.  Navigate to the `Operations` tab.
1.  In the `General` section, click `Fork service`. In the dialog, confirm by
    clicking `Fork service`. The forked service takes a few minutes to start.
1.  To change the configuration of your fork, click
    `Advanced options`. You can set different compute and
    storage options, separate from your original database.
1.  The forked service shows in the `Services` dashboard with a label stating
    which service it has been forked from.

<img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tsc-forked-service.png" alt="Fork a Timescale Cloud service"/>

</procedure>

### Reset service password
You can reset your service password from the `Operations` dashboard. This is the
password you use to connect to your database, not the password to your Timescale
Cloud account. To reset your Timescale Cloud password, navigate to the `Account`
page.

When you reset your service password, you are prompted for your Timescale
Cloud password. When you have authenticated, you can create a new service password,
ask Timescale Cloud to auto-generate a password, or switch your authentication
type between SCRAM and MD5.

SCRAM (Salted Challenge Response Authentication Mechanism) and MD5 (Message Digest
Algorithm 5) are cryptographic authentication mechanisms. Timescale Cloud uses SCRAM
by default. It is more secure and strongly recommended. The MD5 option is provided
for compatibility with older clients.

### Pause service
You can pause a service if you want to stop it running temporarily. This stops
your service from costing you, but the service is still available and ready to
be restarted at any time.

### Terminate a service
You can terminate a service to delete it completely. This removes the service
and its underlying data from the server. You cannot recover a terminated
service.
