cloud/service-operations/maintenance.md, before:

---
title: Service operations - Maintenance
excerpt: How your Timescale Cloud service is kept up-to-date
product: cloud
keywords: [updates, upgrades, maintenance]
---

# Service operations - Maintenance
On Timescale Cloud, minor software updates are handled automatically by us, and
you do not need to perform any actions.

Most updates that we perform on your Timescale Cloud services are applied during
a maintenance window that you can define to suit your workload. However, if we
detect a critical security vulnerability that affects you, we might need to
perform maintenance outside of the scheduled maintenance window.

<highlight type="important">
After a maintenance update, the DNS name remains the same, but the IP address
it points to often changes.
</highlight>

In most cases, the updates that occur during your maintenance windows do not
require any downtime. This means that there is no outage of your services during
the upgrade. However, all connections and transactions in progress during the
upgrade are reset. Usually, the database connection is automatically restored
after the reset.

Sometimes, updates that occur during your maintenance window require some
downtime. In this case, the downtime is usually between 30&nbsp;seconds and
5&nbsp;minutes. We endeavor to notify you on email ahead of the upgrade if
downtime is required, so that you can plan accordingly. However, in some cases,
we might not be able to do so. It is important that you schedule your
maintenance window to minimize the disruption that a short downtime might have
on your workloads.

## Non-critical maintenance updates
Non-critical upgrades are made available before the upgrade is performed
automatically. During this time you can click `Apply upgrades` to start the
upgrade at any time. However, after the time expires, usually around a week,
the upgrade is triggered automatically in the next available maintenance window
for your service. You can configure the maintenance window so that these
upgrades are started only at a particular time, on a set day of the week. If
there are no pending upgrades available during a regular maintenance window, no
changes are performed.

When you are considering your maintenance window schedule, you might prefer to
choose a day and time that usually has very low activity, such as during the
early hours of the morning, or over the weekend. This can help minimize the
impact of a short service interruption. Alternatively, you might prefer to have
your maintenance window occur during office hours, so that you can monitor your
system during the upgrade.

<procedure>

### Adjusting your maintenance window
1.  [Log in to your Timescale Cloud account][cloud-login]. Click the name of the
    service that you want to manage the maintenance window for.
1.  In the `Operations` tab, navigate to the `Maintenance` section, and
    click `Change maintenance window`.
1.  In the `Maintenance` dialog, select the day of the week, the time, and the
    timezone that you want the maintenance window to start. Maintenance windows
    can run for up to four hours.
1.  Check `Apply new maintenance window to all services` if you want to use the
    same maintenance window settings for all of your Timescale Cloud services.
1.  Click `Apply Changes`.
    <img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tsc-maintenance-change.png" alt="Timescale Cloud change maintenance window"/>

</procedure>

## Critical updates
Critical upgrades and security fixes are installed outside normal maintenance
windows when necessary, and sometimes require a short outage. In this case, the
downtime is usually between 30&nbsp;seconds and 5&nbsp;minutes. We endeavor to
notify you on email ahead of the upgrade if downtime is required, so that you
can plan accordingly. However, in some cases, we might not be able to do so.

## Upgrade to a new PostgreSQL version
Timescale Cloud currently supports PostgreSQL&nbsp;12, 13, and 14. You can see
your PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB versions from the Timescale Cloud dashboard. 

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot
<img class="main-content__illustration"
    src="FIXME"
    alt="The Timescale Cloud dashboard, showing the PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB
    versions"
/>
-->

You can also manually upgrade to the newest supported PostgreSQL version
(PostgreSQL&nbsp;14) from the dashboard.

Upgrading to a newer version of PostgreSQL allows you to take advantage of new
features, enhancements, and security fixes. It also ensures that you are using a
version of PostgreSQL that's compatible with the newest version of TimescaleDB,
allowing you to take advantage of everything Timescale has to offer. For more
information about feature changes between versions, see the
[PostgreSQL release notes][postgres-relnotes] and
[TimescaleDB release notes][timescale-relnotes].

<highlight type="warning">
Your Timescale Cloud service is unavailable for use until the upgrade is
complete. Upgrading can take up to several hours, so we recommend
that you plan ahead, and upgrade during a time with low usage. You can also
reduce downtime for upgrades by enabling replicas.
</highlight>

### Recommended practices for upgrading
Follow these optional recommendations for a smooth upgrade experience:

*   Fork your database, and try out the upgrade on the fork before running it on
    your production system. This gives you a good idea of what happens during
    the upgrade, and how long it might take. For more information about forking,
    see the section on [forking][operations-forking].
*   Keep a copy of your database with your old version and data, if you're
    worried about losing it. You can fork your database without upgrading the
    fork to keep a duplicate Timescale Cloud service.
*   Enable replicas for near-zero-downtime upgrades. If you have replicas
    enabled on Timescale Cloud, the upgrade process upgrades your nodes one by
    one, so one node is always available. The only downtime is the time
    needed for failover, which usually takes a few seconds. For more
    information about replicas in Timescale Cloud, see the section on
    [replicas][replicas].

<procedure>

### Upgrading to a new PostgreSQL version
1.  In the Timescale Cloud console, navigate to `Services` and click the service
    you want to upgrade.
1.  Navigate to the `Operations` tab, and go to the `Maintenance` section.
1.  If a new PostgreSQL version is available, click the `Upgrade` button, and
    confirm that you are ready to start the upgrade. Your Timescale Cloud
    service is unavailable for use until the upgrade is complete.
1.  When the upgrade is finished, your service automatically resumes normal
    operations. If the upgrade is unsuccessful, the service returns to the state
    it was in before you started the upgrade.

</procedure>

[cloud-login]: https://cloud.timescale.com
[operations-forking]: /cloud/:currentVersion:/operations/#fork-a-service
[postgres-relnotes]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/release/
[replicas]: /cloud/:currentVersion:/high-availability/
[timescale-relnotes]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/overview/release-notes/

Commit message:

Fixed some replicas info
Unfortunately replicas do not help reduce downtime during a major version upgrade at this time

cloud/service-operations/maintenance.md, after:

---
title: Service operations - Maintenance
excerpt: How your Timescale Cloud service is kept up-to-date
product: cloud
keywords: [updates, upgrades, maintenance]
---

# Service operations - Maintenance
On Timescale Cloud, minor software updates are handled automatically by us, and
you do not need to perform any actions.

Most updates that we perform on your Timescale Cloud services are applied during
a maintenance window that you can define to suit your workload. However, if we
detect a critical security vulnerability that affects you, we might need to
perform maintenance outside of the scheduled maintenance window.

<highlight type="important">
After a maintenance update, the DNS name remains the same, but the IP address
it points to often changes.
</highlight>

In most cases, the updates that occur during your maintenance windows do not
require any downtime. This means that there is no outage of your services during
the upgrade. However, all connections and transactions in progress during the
upgrade are reset. Usually, the database connection is automatically restored
after the reset.

Sometimes, updates that occur during your maintenance window require some
downtime. In this case, the downtime is usually between 30&nbsp;seconds and
5&nbsp;minutes. We endeavor to notify you on email ahead of the upgrade if
downtime is required, so that you can plan accordingly. However, in some cases,
we might not be able to do so. It is important that you schedule your
maintenance window to minimize the disruption that a short downtime might have
on your workloads.

## Non-critical maintenance updates
Non-critical upgrades are made available before the upgrade is performed
automatically. During this time you can click `Apply upgrades` to start the
upgrade at any time. However, after the time expires, usually around a week,
the upgrade is triggered automatically in the next available maintenance window
for your service. You can configure the maintenance window so that these
upgrades are started only at a particular time, on a set day of the week. If
there are no pending upgrades available during a regular maintenance window, no
changes are performed.

When you are considering your maintenance window schedule, you might prefer to
choose a day and time that usually has very low activity, such as during the
early hours of the morning, or over the weekend. This can help minimize the
impact of a short service interruption. Alternatively, you might prefer to have
your maintenance window occur during office hours, so that you can monitor your
system during the upgrade.

<procedure>

### Adjusting your maintenance window
1.  [Log in to your Timescale Cloud account][cloud-login]. Click the name of the
    service that you want to manage the maintenance window for.
1.  In the `Operations` tab, navigate to the `Maintenance` section, and
    click `Change maintenance window`.
1.  In the `Maintenance` dialog, select the day of the week, the time, and the
    timezone that you want the maintenance window to start. Maintenance windows
    can run for up to four hours.
1.  Check `Apply new maintenance window to all services` if you want to use the
    same maintenance window settings for all of your Timescale Cloud services.
1.  Click `Apply Changes`.
    <img class="main-content__illustration" src="https://s3.amazonaws.com/assets.timescale.com/docs/images/tsc-maintenance-change.png" alt="Timescale Cloud change maintenance window"/>

</procedure>

## Critical updates
Critical upgrades and security fixes are installed outside normal maintenance
windows when necessary, and sometimes require a short outage. In this case, the
downtime is usually between 30&nbsp;seconds and 5&nbsp;minutes. We endeavor to
notify you on email ahead of the upgrade if downtime is required, so that you
can plan accordingly. However, in some cases, we might not be able to do so.

## Upgrade to a new PostgreSQL version
Timescale Cloud currently supports PostgreSQL&nbsp;12, 13, and 14. You can see
your PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB versions from the Timescale Cloud dashboard. 

<!-- TODO: Add screenshot
<img class="main-content__illustration"
    src="FIXME"
    alt="The Timescale Cloud dashboard, showing the PostgreSQL and TimescaleDB
    versions"
/>
-->

You can also manually upgrade to the newest supported PostgreSQL version
(PostgreSQL&nbsp;14) from the dashboard.

Upgrading to a newer version of PostgreSQL allows you to take advantage of new
features, enhancements, and security fixes. It also ensures that you are using a
version of PostgreSQL that's compatible with the newest version of TimescaleDB,
allowing you to take advantage of everything Timescale has to offer. For more
information about feature changes between versions, see the
[PostgreSQL release notes][postgres-relnotes] and
[TimescaleDB release notes][timescale-relnotes].

<highlight type="warning">
Your Timescale Cloud service is unavailable for use until the upgrade is
complete. Upgrading can take up to several hours, so we recommend
that you plan ahead, and upgrade during a time with low usage. 
</highlight>

### Recommended practices for upgrading
Follow these optional recommendations for a smooth upgrade experience:

*   Fork your database, and try out the upgrade on the fork before running it on
    your production system. This gives you a good idea of what happens during
    the upgrade, and how long it might take. For more information about forking,
    see the section on [forking][operations-forking].
*   Keep a copy of your database with your old version and data, if you're
    worried about losing it. You can fork your database without upgrading the
    fork to keep a duplicate Timescale Cloud service. You can immediately pause 
    this fork to only pay for storage until you are comfortable deleting it.
<procedure>

### Upgrading to a new PostgreSQL version
1.  In the Timescale Cloud console, navigate to `Services` and click the service
    you want to upgrade.
1.  Navigate to the `Operations` tab, and go to the `Maintenance` section.
1.  If a new PostgreSQL version is available, click the `Upgrade` button, and
    confirm that you are ready to start the upgrade. Your Timescale Cloud
    service is unavailable for use until the upgrade is complete.
1.  When the upgrade is finished, your service automatically resumes normal
    operations. If the upgrade is unsuccessful, the service returns to the state
    it was in before you started the upgrade.

</procedure>

[cloud-login]: https://cloud.timescale.com
[operations-forking]: /cloud/:currentVersion:/operations/#fork-a-service
[postgres-relnotes]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/release/
[replicas]: /cloud/:currentVersion:/high-availability/
[timescale-relnotes]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/overview/release-notes/
