api/add_retention_policy.md, before:

---
api_name: add_retention_policy()
excerpt: Add a policy to drop older chunks
license: community
topic: data retention
keywords: [data retention, policies, delete]
tags: [hypertables, drop]
---

## add_retention_policy() <tag type="community">Community</tag>

Create a policy to drop chunks older than a given interval of a particular
hypertable or continuous aggregate on a schedule in the background. (See [drop_chunks][drop_chunks]).
This implements a data retention policy and removes data on a schedule. Only
one retention policy may exist per hypertable.

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `relation` | REGCLASS | Name of the hypertable or continuous aggregate to create the policy for. |
| `drop_after` | INTERVAL or INTEGER | Chunks fully older than this interval when the policy is run are dropped|

The `drop_after` parameter should be specified differently depending on the
type of the time column of the hypertable:
- For hypertables with TIMESTAMP, TIMESTAMPTZ, and DATE time columns: the time
interval should be an INTERVAL type.
- For hypertables with integer-based timestamps: the time interval should be an
integer type (this requires the [integer_now_func][set_integer_now_func] to be set).

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `if_not_exists` | BOOLEAN | Set to true to avoid throwing an error if the drop_chunks_policy already exists. A notice is issued instead. Defaults to false. |

### Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`job_id`| INTEGER |  TimescaleDB background job id created to implement this policy|

### Sample usage

Create a data retention policy to discard chunks greater than 6 months old:
```sql
SELECT add_retention_policy('conditions', INTERVAL '6 months');
```

Create a data retention policy with an integer-based time column:
```sql
SELECT add_retention_policy('conditions', BIGINT '600000');
```

[drop_chunks]: /api/:currentVersion:/hypertable/drop_chunks/
[set_integer_now_func]: /api/:currentVersion:/hypertable/set_integer_now_func/

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter (#1436)
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/add_retention_policy.md, after:

---
api_name: add_retention_policy()
excerpt: Add a policy to drop older chunks
topics: [data retention, jobs]
keywords: [data retention, policies, delete]
tags: [hypertables, drop]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
---

## add_retention_policy() <tag type="community">Community</tag>

Create a policy to drop chunks older than a given interval of a particular
hypertable or continuous aggregate on a schedule in the background. (See [drop_chunks][drop_chunks]).
This implements a data retention policy and removes data on a schedule. Only
one retention policy may exist per hypertable.

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `relation` | REGCLASS | Name of the hypertable or continuous aggregate to create the policy for. |
| `drop_after` | INTERVAL or INTEGER | Chunks fully older than this interval when the policy is run are dropped|

The `drop_after` parameter should be specified differently depending on the
type of the time column of the hypertable:

*   For hypertables with TIMESTAMP, TIMESTAMPTZ, and DATE time columns: the time
interval should be an INTERVAL type.
*   For hypertables with integer-based timestamps: the time interval should be an
integer type (this requires the [integer_now_func][set_integer_now_func] to be set).

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `if_not_exists` | BOOLEAN | Set to true to avoid throwing an error if the drop_chunks_policy already exists. A notice is issued instead. Defaults to false. |

### Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`job_id`| INTEGER |  TimescaleDB background job id created to implement this policy|

### Sample usage

Create a data retention policy to discard chunks greater than 6 months old:

```sql
SELECT add_retention_policy('conditions', INTERVAL '6 months');
```

Create a data retention policy with an integer-based time column:

```sql
SELECT add_retention_policy('conditions', BIGINT '600000');
```

[drop_chunks]: /api/:currentVersion:/hypertable/drop_chunks/
[set_integer_now_func]: /api/:currentVersion:/hypertable/set_integer_now_func/
