api/add_reorder_policy.md, before:

---
api_name: add_reorder_policy()
excerpt: Add a policy to reorder rows in hypertable chunks
topics: [hypertables, jobs]
keywords: [hypertables, chunks, policies]
tags: [reorder]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
---

# add_reorder_policy() <Tag type="community">Community</Tag>

Create a policy to reorder chunks on a given hypertable index in the
background. (See [reorder_chunk][reorder_chunk]). Only one reorder policy may
exist per hypertable. Only chunks that are the third from the most recent are
reordered to avoid reordering chunks that are still being inserted into.

<Highlight type="tip">
 Once a chunk has been reordered by the background worker it is not
reordered again. So if one were to insert significant amounts of data in to
older chunks that have already been reordered, it might be necessary to manually
re-run the [reorder_chunk](/api/latest/hypertable/reorder_chunk) function on older chunks, or to drop
and re-create the policy if many older chunks have been affected.
</Highlight>

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `hypertable` | REGCLASS | Hypertable to create the policy for. |
| `index_name` | TEXT | Existing index by which to order rows on disk. |
|`initial_start`|TIMESTAMPTZ|Time the policy is first run. Defaults to NULL. If omitted, then the schedule interval is the interval between the finish time of the last execution and the next start. If provided, it serves as the origin with respect to which the next_start is calculated |
|`timezone`|TEXT|A valid time zone. If `initial_start` is also specified, subsequent executions of the reorder policy are aligned on its initial start. However, daylight savings time (DST) changes might shift this alignment. Set to a valid time zone if this is an issue you want to mitigate. If omitted, UTC bucketing is performed. Defaults to `NULL`.|

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `if_not_exists` | BOOLEAN |  Set to true to avoid throwing an error if the reorder_policy already exists. A notice is issued instead. Defaults to false. |

### Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`job_id`| INTEGER | TimescaleDB background job id created to implement this policy|

### Sample usage

```sql
SELECT add_reorder_policy('conditions', 'conditions_device_id_time_idx');
```

Creates a policy to reorder completed chunks by the existing `(device_id, time)` index. (See [reorder_chunk][reorder_chunk]).

[reorder_chunk]: /api/:currentVersion:/hypertable/reorder_chunk

Commit message:

Light editing and definition of complete chunk

api/add_reorder_policy.md, after:

---
api_name: add_reorder_policy()
excerpt: Add a policy to reorder rows in hypertable chunks
topics: [hypertables, jobs]
keywords: [hypertables, chunks, policies]
tags: [reorder]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
---

# add_reorder_policy() <Tag type="community">Community</Tag>

Create a policy to reorder chunks on a given hypertable index in the background.
You can only one reorder policy on each hypertable. Only chunks that are the
third from the most recent are reordered to avoid reordering chunks that are
still being inserted into. For more information about reordering chunks, see the
[reorder_chunk][reorder_chunk] section.

<Highlight type="note">
When a chunk has been reordered by the background worker it is not reordered
again. If you insert significant amounts of data in to older chunks that have
already been reordered, you might need to manually re-run the
[reorder_chunk](/api/latest/hypertable/reorder_chunk)
function on older chunks. Alternatively, you can drop and re-create the policy,
which can work better if you have changed a lot of older chunks.
</Highlight>

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`hypertable`|REGCLASS|Hypertable to create the policy for|
|`index_name`|TEXT|Existing index by which to order rows on disk|
|`initial_start`|TIMESTAMPTZ|Time the policy is first run. Defaults to NULL. If omitted, then the schedule interval is the interval between the finish time of the last execution and the next start. If provided, it serves as the origin with respect to which the `next_start` is calculated|
|`timezone`|TEXT|A valid time zone. If `initial_start` is also specified, subsequent executions of the reorder policy are aligned on its initial start. However, daylight savings time (DST) changes might shift this alignment. Set to a valid time zone if this is an issue you want to mitigate. If omitted, UTC bucketing is performed. Defaults to `NULL`.|

## Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`if_not_exists`|BOOLEAN|Set to true to avoid an error if the `reorder_policy` already exists. A notice is issued instead. Defaults to `false`.|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`job_id`|INTEGER|TimescaleDB background job ID created to implement this policy|

## Sample usage

```sql
SELECT add_reorder_policy('conditions', 'conditions_device_id_time_idx');
```

Creates a policy to reorder chunks by the existing `(device_id, time)` index.
This applies to chunks that are complete, and are no longer being written to.
For more information about reordering chunks, see the
[reorder_chunk][reorder_chunk] section.

[reorder_chunk]: /api/:currentVersion:/hypertable/reorder_chunk
