api/api-tag-overview.md, before:

# API Reference tag overview
The Timescale API Reference uses tags to categorize functions. The tags are `Community`, 
`Experimental`, `Toolkit`, and `Experimental (Toolkit)`. This section explains each tag.

## Community <tag type="community">Community</tag>
This tag indicates that the function is available under TimescaleDB Community 
Edition, and are not available under the Apache 2 Edition. For more information, 
visit our [TimescaleDB License comparison sheet][tsl-comparison].

## Experimental (TimescaleDB Experimental Schema) <tag type="experimental">Experimental</tag>
This tag indicates that the function is included in the TimescaleDB experimental schema. 
Do not use experimental functions in production. Experimental features could include bugs, 
and are likely to change in future versions. The experimental schema is used by Timescale 
to develop new features more quickly. If experimental functions are successful, 
they can move out of the experimental schema and go into production use. For more 
information about the experimental schema, [read the Timescale blog post][experimental-blog].

## Toolkit <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag>
This tag indicates that the function is included in the TimescaleDB Toolkit extension. 
Toolkit functions are available under Timescale Community Edition. 
For installation instructions, [see the installation guide][toolkit-install].

## Experimental (TimescaleDB Toolkit) <tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>
This tag is used with the Toolkit tag. It indicates a Toolkit function that is under 
active development. Do not use experimental toolkit functions in production. 
Experimental toolkit functions could include bugs, and are likely to change in future versions. 
These functions might not correctly handle unusual use cases or errors, and they 
could have poor performance. Updates to the TimescaleDB extension drop database 
objects that depend on experimental features like this function. If you use experimental 
toolkit functions on Timescale Cloud, this function is automatically dropped when the 
Toolkit extension is updated. For more information, [see the TimescaleDB Toolkit docs][toolkit-docs].

[tsl-comparison]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/timescaledb-edition-comparison/
[toolkit-install]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/install-toolkit/
[toolkit-docs]: https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-toolkit/tree/main/docs#a-note-on-tags-
[experimental-blog]: https://blog.timescale.com/blog/move-fast-but-dont-break-things-introducing-the-experimental-schema-with-new-experimental-features-in-timescaledb-2-4/

Commit message:

[API] Add excerpts, keywords, and tags

api/api-tag-overview.md, after:

---
title: API reference tag overview
excerpt: Understand the tags used in the Timescale documentation API references
tags: [licenses, toolkit, experimental]
---

# API Reference tag overview
The Timescale API Reference uses tags to categorize functions. The tags are `Community`, 
`Experimental`, `Toolkit`, and `Experimental (Toolkit)`. This section explains each tag.

## Community <tag type="community">Community</tag>
This tag indicates that the function is available under TimescaleDB Community 
Edition, and are not available under the Apache 2 Edition. For more information, 
visit our [TimescaleDB License comparison sheet][tsl-comparison].

## Experimental (TimescaleDB Experimental Schema) <tag type="experimental">Experimental</tag>
This tag indicates that the function is included in the TimescaleDB experimental schema. 
Do not use experimental functions in production. Experimental features could include bugs, 
and are likely to change in future versions. The experimental schema is used by Timescale 
to develop new features more quickly. If experimental functions are successful, 
they can move out of the experimental schema and go into production use. For more 
information about the experimental schema, [read the Timescale blog post][experimental-blog].

## Toolkit <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag>
This tag indicates that the function is included in the TimescaleDB Toolkit extension. 
Toolkit functions are available under Timescale Community Edition. 
For installation instructions, [see the installation guide][toolkit-install].

## Experimental (TimescaleDB Toolkit) <tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>
This tag is used with the Toolkit tag. It indicates a Toolkit function that is under 
active development. Do not use experimental toolkit functions in production. 
Experimental toolkit functions could include bugs, and are likely to change in future versions. 
These functions might not correctly handle unusual use cases or errors, and they 
could have poor performance. Updates to the TimescaleDB extension drop database 
objects that depend on experimental features like this function. If you use experimental 
toolkit functions on Timescale Cloud, this function is automatically dropped when the 
Toolkit extension is updated. For more information, [see the TimescaleDB Toolkit docs][toolkit-docs].

[tsl-comparison]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/timescaledb-edition-comparison/
[toolkit-install]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/install-toolkit/
[toolkit-docs]: https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb-toolkit/tree/main/docs#a-note-on-tags-
[experimental-blog]: https://blog.timescale.com/blog/move-fast-but-dont-break-things-introducing-the-experimental-schema-with-new-experimental-features-in-timescaledb-2-4/
