api/asap.md, before:

---
api_name: asap_smooth()
excerpt: Downsample a time series using the ASAP smoothing algorithm
license: community
toolkit: true
experimental: true
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [downsample, smooth, hyperfunctions]
tags: [toolkit]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'downsample'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'downsample'
hyperfunction_type: other
---

# asap_smooth()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>
The [ASAP smoothing alogrithm][asap-algorithm] is designed to create 
human-readable graphs that preserve the rough shape and larger trends 
of the input data, while minimizing the local variance between points. 
The `asap_smooth` hyperfunction provides an implementation of this 
algorithm that takes `(timestamptz, double precision)` data and returns 
an ASAP smoothed [`timevector`][hyperfunctions-timevectors] line.

## Required arguments

|Name| Type |Description|
|-|-|-|
|`ts`|`TIMESTAMPTZ`|Column of timestamps corresponding to the values to aggregate|
|`value`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|Column to aggregate|
|`resolution`|`INT`|Approximate number of points to return. Intended to represent the horizontal resolution in which the aggregate is graphed.|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`normalizedtimevector`|`NormalizedTimevector`|An object representing a series of values occurring at set intervals from a starting time. It can be unpacked via `unnest`.|

## Sample usage
This example uses a table called `metrics`, with columns for `date` and 
`reading` that contain measurements that have been accumulated over 
a large interval of time. This example takes that data and provides a 
smoothed representation of approximately 10 points, but that still shows 
any anomalous readings:
```sql
SET TIME ZONE 'UTC';
CREATE TABLE metrics(date TIMESTAMPTZ, reading DOUBLE PRECISION);
INSERT INTO metrics
SELECT
    '2020-1-1 UTC'::timestamptz + make_interval(hours=>foo),
    (5 + 5 * sin(foo / 12.0 * PI()))
    FROM generate_series(1,168) foo;

```

```sql
SELECT * FROM toolkit_experimental.unnest(
    (SELECT toolkit_experimental.asap_smooth(date, reading, 8)
     FROM metrics));
```

The output for this query:
```sql
          time          |        value
------------------------+---------------------
 2020-01-01 01:00:00+00 | 5.3664814565722665
 2020-01-01 21:00:00+00 |  5.949469264090644
 2020-01-02 17:00:00+00 |  5.582987807518377
 2020-01-03 13:00:00+00 |  4.633518543427733
 2020-01-04 09:00:00+00 |  4.050530735909357
 2020-01-05 05:00:00+00 |  4.417012192481623
 2020-01-06 01:00:00+00 |  5.366481456572268
 2020-01-06 21:00:00+00 |  5.949469264090643
```


[asap-algorithm]: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.00983.pdf
[hyperfunctions-timevectors]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/function-pipelines/#timevectors

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/asap.md, after:

---
api_name: asap_smooth()
excerpt: Downsample a time series using the ASAP smoothing algorithm
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [downsample, smooth, hyperfunctions]
tags: [toolkit]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
  experimental: true
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: downsample
  type: one-step aggregate
# fields below will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'downsample'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'downsample'
hyperfunction_type: other
---

# asap_smooth()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>

The [ASAP smoothing alogrithm][asap-algorithm] is designed to create
human-readable graphs that preserve the rough shape and larger trends
of the input data, while minimizing the local variance between points.
The `asap_smooth` hyperfunction provides an implementation of this
algorithm that takes `(timestamptz, double precision)` data and returns
an ASAP smoothed [`timevector`][hyperfunctions-timevectors] line.

## Required arguments

|Name| Type |Description|
|-|-|-|
|`ts`|`TIMESTAMPTZ`|Column of timestamps corresponding to the values to aggregate|
|`value`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|Column to aggregate|
|`resolution`|`INT`|Approximate number of points to return. Intended to represent the horizontal resolution in which the aggregate is graphed.|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`normalizedtimevector`|`NormalizedTimevector`|An object representing a series of values occurring at set intervals from a starting time. It can be unpacked via `unnest`.|

## Sample usage

This example uses a table called `metrics`, with columns for `date` and
`reading` that contain measurements that have been accumulated over
a large interval of time. This example takes that data and provides a
smoothed representation of approximately 10 points, but that still shows
any anomalous readings:

```sql
SET TIME ZONE 'UTC';
CREATE TABLE metrics(date TIMESTAMPTZ, reading DOUBLE PRECISION);
INSERT INTO metrics
SELECT
    '2020-1-1 UTC'::timestamptz + make_interval(hours=>foo),
    (5 + 5 * sin(foo / 12.0 * PI()))
    FROM generate_series(1,168) foo;

```

```sql
SELECT * FROM toolkit_experimental.unnest(
    (SELECT toolkit_experimental.asap_smooth(date, reading, 8)
     FROM metrics));
```

The output for this query:

```sql
          time          |        value
------------------------+---------------------
 2020-01-01 01:00:00+00 | 5.3664814565722665
 2020-01-01 21:00:00+00 |  5.949469264090644
 2020-01-02 17:00:00+00 |  5.582987807518377
 2020-01-03 13:00:00+00 |  4.633518543427733
 2020-01-04 09:00:00+00 |  4.050530735909357
 2020-01-05 05:00:00+00 |  4.417012192481623
 2020-01-06 01:00:00+00 |  5.366481456572268
 2020-01-06 21:00:00+00 |  5.949469264090643
```

[asap-algorithm]: https://arxiv.org/pdf/1703.00983.pdf
[hyperfunctions-timevectors]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/function-pipelines/#timevectors
