api/average-stats.md, before:

---
api_name: 'average() | average_y() | average_x()'
excerpt: Calculate the average of values in a statistical aggregate
license: community
toolkit: true
experimental: false
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [average, statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: false
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-1d
---

# average(), average_y(), and average_x() <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag>

```SQL
average(summary StatsSummary1D) RETURNS BIGINT
```
```SQL
average_y(summary StatsSummary2D) RETURNS BIGINT
```
```SQL
average_x(summary StatsSummary2D) RETURNS BIGINT
```

Get the average of the values contained in a statistical aggregate.
In a two-dimensional [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] use the `_y`/ `_x` form to access the 
average of the dependent and independent variables. 

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary1D`/`StatsSummary2D`|The already constructed data structure from a previous [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] call|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`average`/`average_y`/`average_x`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The average of  the values in the statistical aggregate|

## Sample usage

```SQL
SELECT average(stats_agg(data))
FROM generate_series(0, 100) data;
```
```output
 average
-----------
       50
```


[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/average-stats.md, after:

---
api_name: average() | average_y() | average_x()
excerpt: Calculate the average of values in a statistical aggregate
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [average, statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: statistical aggregates
  type: accessor, 1D
  aggregates:
    - stats_agg()
# fields below this will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-1d
---

# average(), average_y(), and average_x() <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag>

```SQL
average(summary StatsSummary1D) RETURNS BIGINT
```

```SQL
average_y(summary StatsSummary2D) RETURNS BIGINT
```

```SQL
average_x(summary StatsSummary2D) RETURNS BIGINT
```

Get the average of the values contained in a statistical aggregate.
In a two-dimensional [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] use the `_y`/ `_x` form to access the
average of the dependent and independent variables.

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary1D`/`StatsSummary2D`|The already constructed data structure from a previous [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] call|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`average`/`average_y`/`average_x`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The average of  the values in the statistical aggregate|

## Sample usage

```SQL
SELECT average(stats_agg(data))
FROM generate_series(0, 100) data;
```

```output
 average
-----------
       50
```

[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/
