api/covariance.md, before:

---
api_name: covariance()
excerpt: Calculate the covariance from values in a 2-dimensional `StatsSummary`
license: community
toolkit: true
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [covariance, statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: false
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-2d
---

# covariance() <tag type="toolkit" content="Toolkit" />

```sql
covariance(
    summary StatsSummary2D,
    method TEXT 
) RETURNS DOUBLE PRECISION
```
The covariance of the [least squares fit][least-squares] line 
computed from a two-dimensional statistical aggregate. 

The `method` determines whether you calculate a 'population' or 'sample' covariance. 
These values can be provided as their full names, or you can abbreviate them as `pop` or `samp`. These
are the only four accepted values for the `method` argument. The default is `sample`.

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary2D`|The input StatsSummary from a [`stats_agg` call][stats-agg]|

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`method`|`TEXT`|The method for the calculation 'population' or 'sample' (default)|

## Returns

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`covariance`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The x intercept of the least squares fit line.|

## Sample usage

```sql
SELECT
    id,
    time_bucket('15 min'::interval, ts) AS bucket,
    covariance(stats_agg(y, x)) AS summary
FROM foo
GROUP BY id, time_bucket('15 min'::interval, ts)
```


[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/
[least-squares]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Least_squares

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter (#1436)
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/covariance.md, after:

---
api_name: covariance()
excerpt: Calculate the covariance from values in a 2-dimensional `StatsSummary`
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [covariance, statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: statistical aggregates
  type: accessor, 2D
  aggregates:
    - stats_agg()
# fields below will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-2d
---

# covariance() <tag type="toolkit" content="Toolkit" />

```sql
covariance(
    summary StatsSummary2D,
    method TEXT 
) RETURNS DOUBLE PRECISION
```

The covariance of the [least squares fit][least-squares] line
computed from a two-dimensional statistical aggregate.

The `method` determines whether you calculate a 'population' or 'sample' covariance.
These values can be provided as their full names, or you can abbreviate them as `pop` or `samp`. These
are the only four accepted values for the `method` argument. The default is `sample`.

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary2D`|The input StatsSummary from a [`stats_agg` call][stats-agg]|

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`method`|`TEXT`|The method for the calculation 'population' or 'sample' (default)|

## Returns

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`covariance`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The x intercept of the least squares fit line.|

## Sample usage

```sql
SELECT
    id,
    time_bucket('15 min'::interval, ts) AS bucket,
    covariance(stats_agg(y, x)) AS summary
FROM foo
GROUP BY id, time_bucket('15 min'::interval, ts)
```

[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/
[least-squares]:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Least_squares
