api/create_materialized_view.md, before:

---
api_name: CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW (Continuous Aggregate)
excerpt: Create a continuous aggregate on a hypertable or another continuous aggregate
topics: [continuous aggregates]
keywords: [continuous aggregates, create]
tags: [materialized view, hypertables]
api:
  license: community
  type: command
---

# CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW (Continuous Aggregate) <Tag type="community">Community</Tag>

The `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` statement is used to create continuous
aggregates. To learn more, see the [continuous aggregate how-to guides][cagg-how-tos].

The syntax is:

``` sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW <view_name> [ ( column_name [, ...] ) ]
  WITH ( timescaledb.continuous [, timescaledb.<option> = <value> ] )
  AS
    <select_query>
  [WITH [NO] DATA]
```

`<select_query>` is of the form:

```sql
SELECT <grouping_exprs>, <aggregate_functions>
    FROM <hypertable or another continuous aggregate>
[WHERE ... ]
GROUP BY time_bucket( <const_value>, <partition_col_of_hypertable> ),
         [ optional grouping exprs>]
[HAVING ...]
```

The continuous aggregate view defaults to `WITH DATA`. This means that when the
view is created, it refreshes using all the current data in the underlying
hypertable or continuous aggregate. This occurs once when the view is created. If you want the view to
be refreshed regularly, you can use a refresh policy. If you do not want the
view to update when it is first created, use the `WITH NO DATA`
parameter. For more information, see
[`refresh_continuous_aggregate`][refresh-cagg].

Continuous aggregates have some limitations of what types of queries they can
support, described in more length below. For example, the `FROM` clause must
provide only one hypertable or underlying continuous aggregate, and joins, CTEs, or subqueries are not
supported. The `GROUP BY` clause must include a time bucket on the underlying
time column, and all aggregates must be parallelizable.

Some important things to remember when constructing your `SELECT` query:

*   Only a single hypertable or continuous aggregate can be specified in the `FROM` clause of
    the `SELECT` query. You cannot include more hypertables, joins, tables,
    views, or subqueries.
*   The source hypertable or continuous aggregate used in the `SELECT` query must not have
    [row-level-security policies][postgres-rls] enabled.
*   The `GROUP BY` clause must include a `time_bucket` expression that uses the
    time dimension of the hypertable. When creating a continuous aggregate on
    top of another continuous aggregate, `time_bucket` must use the
    time-bucketing column of the underlying continuous aggregate. For more information, see the
    [`time_bucket`][time-bucket] section.
*   You cannot use [`time_bucket_gapfill`][time-bucket-gapfill] in continuous
    aggregates, but you can run them in a `SELECT` query from the continuous
    aggregate view.
*   You can usually use aggregates that are
    [parallelized by PostgreSQL][postgres-parallel-agg] in the view definition,
    including most aggregates distributed by PostgreSQL. However, the `ORDER BY`,
    `DISTINCT` and `FILTER` clauses are not supported.
*   All functions and their arguments included in `SELECT`, `GROUP BY` and
    `HAVING` clauses must be [immutable][postgres-immutable].
*   The view cannot be a [security barrier view][postgres-security-barrier].
*   You cannot use Window functions with continuous aggregates.

The settings for continuous aggregates are in the
[informational views][info-views].

### Parameters

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`<view_name>`|TEXT|Name (optionally schema-qualified) of continuous aggregate view to create|
|`<column_name>`|TEXT|Optional list of names to be used for columns of the view. If not given, the column names are calculated from the query|
|`WITH` clause|TEXT|Specifies options for the continuous aggregate view|
|`<select_query>`|TEXT|A `SELECT` query that uses the specified syntax|

Required `WITH` clause options:

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`timescaledb.continuous`|BOOLEAN|If `timescaledb.continuous` is not specified, this is a regular PostgresSQL materialized view|

Optional `WITH` clause options:

|Name|Type|Description|Default value|
|-|-|-|-|
|`timescaledb.materialized_only`|BOOLEAN|Return only materialized data when querying the continuous aggregate view|`FALSE`|
|`timescaledb.create_group_indexes`|BOOLEAN|Create indexes on the continuous aggregate for columns in its `GROUP BY` clause. Indexes are in the form `(<GROUP_BY_COLUMN>, time_bucket)`|`TRUE`|
|`timescaledb.finalized`|BOOLEAN|In TimescaleDB 2.7 and above, use the new version of continuous aggregates, which stores finalized results for aggregate functions. Supports all aggregate functions, including ones that use `FILTER`, `ORDER BY`, and `DISTINCT` clauses.|`TRUE`|

For more information, see the [real-time aggregates][real-time-aggregates] section.

### Sample usage

Create a daily continuous aggregate view:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW continuous_aggregate_daily( timec, minl, sumt, sumh )
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT time_bucket('1day', timec), min(location), sum(temperature), sum(humidity)
    FROM conditions
    GROUP BY time_bucket('1day', timec)
```

Add a thirty day continuous aggregate on top of the same raw hypertable:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW continuous_aggregate_thirty_day( timec, minl, sumt, sumh )
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT time_bucket('30day', timec), min(location), sum(temperature), sum(humidity)
    FROM conditions
    GROUP BY time_bucket('30day', timec);
```

Add an hourly continuous aggregate on top of the same raw hypertable:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW continuous_aggregate_hourly( timec, minl, sumt, sumh )
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT time_bucket('1h', timec), min(location), sum(temperature), sum(humidity)
    FROM conditions
    GROUP BY time_bucket('1h', timec);
```

[cagg-how-tos]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/
[postgres-immutable]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/xfunc-volatility.html
[postgres-parallel-agg]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/parallel-plans.html#PARALLEL-AGGREGATION
[postgres-rls]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-rowsecurity.html
[postgres-security-barrier]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-privileges.html
[real-time-aggregates]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/real-time-aggregates/
[refresh-cagg]: /api/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/refresh_continuous_aggregate/
[time-bucket]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/time_bucket/
[time-bucket-gapfill]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/gapfilling-interpolation/time_bucket_gapfill/
[info-views]: /api/:currentVersion:/informational-views/

Commit message:

Improve the documentation regarding JOIN support in continuous aggregates (#2089)
* Improve the documentation regarding JOIN support in continuous aggregates

With Timescledb v 2.10, JOINS are supported in continuous aggregates.
The important caveats to this are:
1. JOIN has to be between only one hypertable (and NOT a continuous aggregate)
   and one normal PostgreSQL table
2. Joins type to be INNER.
3. Join condition can only be equality.
4. Supoort of USING clause in PostgreSQL v12 is not permitted, but joins
   can still be used with JOINS clause.

* Update note creating a cagg with a JOIN

Signed-off-by: Yannis Roussos <iroussos@gmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Signed-off-by: Yannis Roussos <iroussos@gmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Signed-off-by: Yannis Roussos <iroussos@gmail.com>

* Apply suggestions from code review

Signed-off-by: Yannis Roussos <iroussos@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Yannis Roussos <iroussos@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Co-authored-by: Yannis Roussos <iroussos@gmail.com>

api/create_materialized_view.md, after:

---
api_name: CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW (Continuous Aggregate)
excerpt: Create a continuous aggregate on a hypertable or another continuous aggregate
topics: [continuous aggregates]
keywords: [continuous aggregates, create]
tags: [materialized view, hypertables]
api:
  license: community
  type: command
---

# CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW (Continuous Aggregate) <Tag type="community">Community</Tag>

The `CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW` statement is used to create continuous
aggregates. To learn more, see the [continuous aggregate how-to guides][cagg-how-tos].

The syntax is:

``` sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW <view_name> [ ( column_name [, ...] ) ]
  WITH ( timescaledb.continuous [, timescaledb.<option> = <value> ] )
  AS
    <select_query>
  [WITH [NO] DATA]
```

`<select_query>` is of the form:

```sql
SELECT <grouping_exprs>, <aggregate_functions>
    FROM <hypertable or another continuous aggregate>
[WHERE ... ]
GROUP BY time_bucket( <const_value>, <partition_col_of_hypertable> ),
         [ optional grouping exprs>]
[HAVING ...]
```

The continuous aggregate view defaults to `WITH DATA`. This means that when the
view is created, it refreshes using all the current data in the underlying
hypertable or continuous aggregate. This occurs once when the view is created. If you want the view to
be refreshed regularly, you can use a refresh policy. If you do not want the
view to update when it is first created, use the `WITH NO DATA`
parameter. For more information, see
[`refresh_continuous_aggregate`][refresh-cagg].

Continuous aggregates have some limitations of what types of queries they can
support, described in more length below. For example, the `FROM` clause must
provide only one hypertable or underlying continuous aggregate; CTEs and subqueries are not
supported.

In TimescaleDB&nbsp;2.10.0 and later, the `FROM` clause supports `JOINS`, with these restrictions:
*   To join between two tables, one table must be a hypertable and the other table must 
     be a standard PostgreSQL table. The order of tables in the `JOIN` clause does not 
     matter.
*   You must use an `INNER JOIN`, no other join type is supported.
*   The `JOIN` conditions can only be equality conditions.
*   The hypertable on the `JOIN` condition must be a hypertable, and not a continuous 
     aggregate. Additionally, you can't use joins in hierarchical continuous aggregates. 
*   Changes to the hypertable are tracked, and are updated in the continuous aggregate 
     when it is refreshed. Changes to the standard PostgreSQL table are not tracked. 
*   The `USING` clause is supported in joins for PostgreSQL&nbsp;13 or later.
     In PostgreSQL&nbsp;12 only joins with a condition in the `WHERE` clause or `JOIN` clause can be used.

The `GROUP BY` clause must include a time bucket on the underlying
time column, and all aggregates must be parallelizable.

Some important things to remember when constructing your `SELECT` query:

*   Only a single hypertable or continuous aggregate can be specified in the `FROM` clause of
    the `SELECT` query. You cannot include more hypertables, joins, tables,
    views, or subqueries.
*   The source hypertable or continuous aggregate used in the `SELECT` query must not have
    [row-level-security policies][postgres-rls] enabled.
*   The `GROUP BY` clause must include a `time_bucket` expression that uses the
    time dimension of the hypertable. When creating a continuous aggregate on
    top of another continuous aggregate, `time_bucket` must use the
    time-bucketing column of the underlying continuous aggregate. For more information, see the
    [`time_bucket`][time-bucket] section.
*   You cannot use [`time_bucket_gapfill`][time-bucket-gapfill] in continuous
    aggregates, but you can run them in a `SELECT` query from the continuous
    aggregate view.
*   You can usually use aggregates that are
    [parallelized by PostgreSQL][postgres-parallel-agg] in the view definition,
    including most aggregates distributed by PostgreSQL. However, the `ORDER BY`,
    `DISTINCT` and `FILTER` clauses are not supported.
*   All functions and their arguments included in `SELECT`, `GROUP BY` and
    `HAVING` clauses must be [immutable][postgres-immutable].
*   The view cannot be a [security barrier view][postgres-security-barrier].
*   You cannot use Window functions with continuous aggregates.

The settings for continuous aggregates are in the
[informational views][info-views].

### Parameters

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`<view_name>`|TEXT|Name (optionally schema-qualified) of continuous aggregate view to create|
|`<column_name>`|TEXT|Optional list of names to be used for columns of the view. If not given, the column names are calculated from the query|
|`WITH` clause|TEXT|Specifies options for the continuous aggregate view|
|`<select_query>`|TEXT|A `SELECT` query that uses the specified syntax|

Required `WITH` clause options:

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`timescaledb.continuous`|BOOLEAN|If `timescaledb.continuous` is not specified, this is a regular PostgresSQL materialized view|

Optional `WITH` clause options:

|Name|Type|Description|Default value|
|-|-|-|-|
|`timescaledb.materialized_only`|BOOLEAN|Return only materialized data when querying the continuous aggregate view|`FALSE`|
|`timescaledb.create_group_indexes`|BOOLEAN|Create indexes on the continuous aggregate for columns in its `GROUP BY` clause. Indexes are in the form `(<GROUP_BY_COLUMN>, time_bucket)`|`TRUE`|
|`timescaledb.finalized`|BOOLEAN|In TimescaleDB 2.7 and above, use the new version of continuous aggregates, which stores finalized results for aggregate functions. Supports all aggregate functions, including ones that use `FILTER`, `ORDER BY`, and `DISTINCT` clauses.|`TRUE`|

For more information, see the [real-time aggregates][real-time-aggregates] section.

### Sample usage

Create a daily continuous aggregate view:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW continuous_aggregate_daily( timec, minl, sumt, sumh )
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT time_bucket('1day', timec), min(location), sum(temperature), sum(humidity)
    FROM conditions
    GROUP BY time_bucket('1day', timec)
```

Add a thirty day continuous aggregate on top of the same raw hypertable:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW continuous_aggregate_thirty_day( timec, minl, sumt, sumh )
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT time_bucket('30day', timec), min(location), sum(temperature), sum(humidity)
    FROM conditions
    GROUP BY time_bucket('30day', timec);
```

Add an hourly continuous aggregate on top of the same raw hypertable:

```sql
CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW continuous_aggregate_hourly( timec, minl, sumt, sumh )
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
  SELECT time_bucket('1h', timec), min(location), sum(temperature), sum(humidity)
    FROM conditions
    GROUP BY time_bucket('1h', timec);
```

[cagg-how-tos]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/
[postgres-immutable]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/xfunc-volatility.html
[postgres-parallel-agg]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/parallel-plans.html#PARALLEL-AGGREGATION
[postgres-rls]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/ddl-rowsecurity.html
[postgres-security-barrier]: https://www.postgresql.org/docs/current/rules-privileges.html
[real-time-aggregates]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/continuous-aggregates/real-time-aggregates/
[refresh-cagg]: /api/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/refresh_continuous_aggregate/
[time-bucket]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/time_bucket/
[time-bucket-gapfill]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/gapfilling-interpolation/time_bucket_gapfill/
[info-views]: /api/:currentVersion:/informational-views/
