api/determination_coeff.md, before:

---
api_name: determination_coeff
excerpt: Calculate the determination coefficient from values in a 2-dimensional statistical aggregate
license: community
toolkit: true
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [determination coefficient, statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: false
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-2d
---

# determination_coeff() <tag type="toolkit" content="Toolkit" />

```sql
determination_coeff(
    summary StatsSummary2D
) RETURNS DOUBLE PRECISION
```
The coefficient of determination (or the R squared) of the least squares fit line 
computed from a two-dimensional statistical aggregate. 

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary2D`|The input StatsSummary from a [`stats_agg` call][stats-agg]|

## Returns

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`determination_coeff`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The determination coefficient of the least squares fit line.|

## Sample usage

```sql
SELECT
    id,
    time_bucket('15 min'::interval, ts) AS bucket,
    determination_coeff(stats_agg(y, x)) AS summary
FROM foo
GROUP BY id, time_bucket('15 min'::interval, ts)
```


[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter (#1436)
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/determination_coeff.md, after:

---
api_name: determination_coeff()
excerpt: Calculate the determination coefficient from values in a 2-dimensional statistical aggregate
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [determination coefficient, statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: statistical aggregates
  type: accessor, 2D
  aggregates:
    - stats_agg()
# fields below will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-2d
---

# determination_coeff() <tag type="toolkit" content="Toolkit" />

```sql
determination_coeff(
    summary StatsSummary2D
) RETURNS DOUBLE PRECISION
```

The coefficient of determination (or the R squared) of the least squares fit line
computed from a two-dimensional statistical aggregate.

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary2D`|The input StatsSummary from a [`stats_agg` call][stats-agg]|

## Returns

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`determination_coeff`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The determination coefficient of the least squares fit line.|

## Sample usage

```sql
SELECT
    id,
    time_bucket('15 min'::interval, ts) AS bucket,
    determination_coeff(stats_agg(y, x)) AS summary
FROM foo
GROUP BY id, time_bucket('15 min'::interval, ts)
```

[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/
