api/freq_agg.md, before:

---
api_name: freq_agg()
excerpt: Aggregate frequency data into a frequency aggregate for further analysis
license: community
toolkit: true
experimental: true
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [frequency, aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'frequency analysis'
hyperfunction_subfamily: SpaceSavingAggregate
hyperfunction_type: aggregate
---

import Experimental from 'versionContent/_partials/_experimental.mdx';

# freq_agg()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>
The `freq_agg` aggregate uses the [SpaceSaving][spacesaving-algorithm] algorithm 
to estimate the most common elements of a set. This API takes a sizing parameter and 
a PostgreSQL column, and returns a FreqAgg object that can be passed to 
[other freq_agg APIs][frequency-analysis].

<Experimental />

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`freq`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|Minimum frequency (0.0-1.0) needed to keep track of a value|
|`value`|`AnyElement`|Column to aggregate|

## Returns
|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`agg`|`SpaceSavingAggregate`|An object storing the most common elements of the given table and their estimated frequency.|

## Sample usage
This example creates frequency aggregate over a field `ZIP` in a `HomeSales`
table. This aggregate tracks any `ZIP` value that occurs in at least 5% of rows.
```sql
CREATE toolkit_experimental.freq_agg(0.05, ZIP) FROM HomeSales;
```

[spacesaving-algorithm]: https://www.cse.ust.hk/~raywong/comp5331/References/EfficientComputationOfFrequentAndTop-kElementsInDataStreams.pdf
[frequency-analysis]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/frequency-analysis/

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter (#1436)
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/freq_agg.md, after:

---
api_name: freq_agg()
excerpt: Aggregate frequency data into a frequency aggregate for further analysis
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [frequency, aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
  experimental: true
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: frequency analysis
  type: aggregate
# fields below will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'frequency analysis'
hyperfunction_subfamily: SpaceSavingAggregate
hyperfunction_type: aggregate
---

import Experimental from 'versionContent/_partials/_experimental.mdx';

# freq_agg()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>

The `freq_agg` aggregate uses the [SpaceSaving][spacesaving-algorithm] algorithm
to estimate the most common elements of a set. This API takes a sizing parameter and
a PostgreSQL column, and returns a FreqAgg object that can be passed to
[other freq_agg APIs][frequency-analysis].

<Experimental />

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`freq`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|Minimum frequency (0.0-1.0) needed to keep track of a value|
|`value`|`AnyElement`|Column to aggregate|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`agg`|`SpaceSavingAggregate`|An object storing the most common elements of the given table and their estimated frequency.|

## Sample usage

This example creates frequency aggregate over a field `ZIP` in a `HomeSales`
table. This aggregate tracks any `ZIP` value that occurs in at least 5% of rows.

```sql
CREATE toolkit_experimental.freq_agg(0.05, ZIP) FROM HomeSales;
```

[spacesaving-algorithm]: https://www.cse.ust.hk/~raywong/comp5331/References/EfficientComputationOfFrequentAndTop-kElementsInDataStreams.pdf
[frequency-analysis]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/frequency-analysis/
