api/hypertable_detailed_size.md, before:

---
api_name: hypertable_detailed_size()
excerpt: Get detailed information about disk space used by a hypertable
topics: [hypertables]
keywords: [hypertables, information]
tags: [statistics, size, disk space]
api:
  license: apache
  type: function
---

# hypertable_detailed_size()  

Get detailed information about disk space used by a hypertable,
returning size information for the table itself, any indexes on the
table, any toast tables, and the total size of all. All sizes are
reported in bytes. If the function is executed on a distributed
hypertable, it returns size information as a separate row per node,
including the access node.

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `hypertable` | REGCLASS | Hypertable to show detailed size of. |

### Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|table_bytes|BIGINT| Disk space used by main_table (like pg_relation_size(main_table))|
|index_bytes|BIGINT| Disk space used by indexes|
|toast_bytes|BIGINT| Disk space of toast tables|
|total_bytes|BIGINT| Total disk space used by the specified table, including all indexes and TOAST data|
|node_name| TEXT | For distributed hypertables, this is the user-given name of the node for which the size is reported. `NULL` is returned for the access node and non-distributed hypertables. |

<Highlight type="tip">
If executed on a relation that is not a hypertable, the function
returns `NULL`.
</Highlight>

### Sample usage

Get size information for a hypertable.

```sql
-- disttable is a distributed hypertable --
SELECT * FROM hypertable_detailed_size('disttable') ORDER BY node_name;

 table_bytes | index_bytes | toast_bytes | total_bytes |  node_name
-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------
       16384 |       40960 |           0 |       57344 | data_node_1
        8192 |       24576 |           0 |       32768 | data_node_2
           0 |        8192 |           0 |        8192 |

```

The access node is listed without a user-given node name. Normally,
the access node holds no data, but still maintains, for example, index
information that occupies a small amount of disk space.

Commit message:

hypertable_(detailed_)size functions now supports CAGG name (#2086)
* Added the fact that hypertable_(detailed_)size functions now support passing a continuous aggregate name

* Update api/hypertable_detailed_size.md

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Signed-off-by: noctarius aka Christoph Engelbert <me@noctarius.com>

* Update api/hypertable_size.md

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Signed-off-by: noctarius aka Christoph Engelbert <me@noctarius.com>

* Update api/hypertable_size.md

Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>
Signed-off-by: noctarius aka Christoph Engelbert <me@noctarius.com>

* unified the message for all examples

---------

Signed-off-by: noctarius aka Christoph Engelbert <me@noctarius.com>
Co-authored-by: Lana Brindley <github@lanabrindley.com>

api/hypertable_detailed_size.md, after:

---
api_name: hypertable_detailed_size()
excerpt: Get detailed information about disk space used by a hypertable
topics: [hypertables]
keywords: [hypertables, information]
tags: [statistics, size, disk space]
api:
  license: apache
  type: function
---

# hypertable_detailed_size()  

Get detailed information about disk space used by a hypertable or
continuous aggregate, returning size information for the table
itself, any indexes on the table, any toast tables, and the total
size of all. All sizes are reported in bytes. If the function is
executed on a distributed hypertable, it returns size information
as a separate row per node, including the access node.

<Highlight type="tip">
When a continuous aggregate name is provided, the function
transparently looks up the backing hypertable and returns its statistics
instead.
</Highlight>

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `hypertable` | REGCLASS | Hypertable or continuous aggregate to show detailed size of. |

### Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|table_bytes|BIGINT| Disk space used by main_table (like pg_relation_size(main_table))|
|index_bytes|BIGINT| Disk space used by indexes|
|toast_bytes|BIGINT| Disk space of toast tables|
|total_bytes|BIGINT| Total disk space used by the specified table, including all indexes and TOAST data|
|node_name| TEXT | For distributed hypertables, this is the user-given name of the node for which the size is reported. `NULL` is returned for the access node and non-distributed hypertables. |

<Highlight type="tip">
If executed on a relation that is not a hypertable, the function
returns `NULL`.
</Highlight>

### Sample usage

Get the size information for a hypertable.

```sql
-- disttable is a distributed hypertable --
SELECT * FROM hypertable_detailed_size('disttable') ORDER BY node_name;

 table_bytes | index_bytes | toast_bytes | total_bytes |  node_name
-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------+-------------
       16384 |       40960 |           0 |       57344 | data_node_1
        8192 |       24576 |           0 |       32768 | data_node_2
           0 |        8192 |           0 |        8192 |

```

The access node is listed without a user-given node name. Normally,
the access node holds no data, but still maintains, for example, index
information that occupies a small amount of disk space.
