api/hypertables.md, before:

---
api_name: timescaledb_information.hypertables
excerpt: Get metadata about hypertables
topics: [information, hypertables]
keywords: [hypertables, information]
tags: [schemas, tablespaces, data nodes, dimensions]
api:
  license: apache
  type: view
---

# timescaledb_information.hypertables

Get metadata information about hypertables.

### Available columns

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `hypertable_schema` | TEXT | Schema name of the hypertable |
| `hypertable_name` | TEXT | Table name of the hypertable |
| `owner` | TEXT | Owner of the hypertable |
| `num_dimensions` | SMALLINT | Number of dimensions |
| `num_chunks` | BIGINT | Number of chunks |
| `compression_enabled` | BOOLEAN | Is compression enabled on the hypertable?|
| `is_distributed` | BOOLEAN | Is the hypertable distributed?|
| `replication_factor` | SMALLINT | Replication factor for a distributed hypertable|
| `data_nodes` | TEXT | Nodes on which hypertable is distributed|
| `tablespaces` | TEXT | Tablespaces attached to the hypertable |

### Sample usage

Get information about a hypertable.

```sql
CREATE TABLE dist_table(time timestamptz, device int, temp float);
SELECT create_distributed_hypertable('dist_table', 'time', 'device', replication_factor => 2);

SELECT * FROM timescaledb_information.hypertables
  WHERE hypertable_name = 'dist_table';

-[ RECORD 1 ]-------+-----------
hypertable_schema   | public
hypertable_name     | dist_table
owner               | postgres 
num_dimensions      | 2
num_chunks          | 3
compression_enabled | f
is_distributed      | t
replication_factor  | 2
data_nodes          | {node_1, node_2}
tablespaces         | 
```

Commit message:

Update hypertable API docs with snippets

api/hypertables.md, after:

---
api_name: timescaledb_information.hypertables
excerpt: Get metadata about hypertables
topics: [information, hypertables]
keywords: [hypertables, information]
tags: [schemas, tablespaces, data nodes, dimensions]
api:
  license: apache
  type: view
---

# timescaledb_information.hypertables

Get metadata information about hypertables.

For more information about using hypertables, including chunk size partitioning,
see the [hypertable section][hypertable-docs].

### Available columns

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`hypertable_schema`|TEXT|Schema name of the hypertable|
|`hypertable_name`|TEXT|Table name of the hypertable|
|`owner`|TEXT|Owner of the hypertable|
|`num_dimensions`|SMALLINT|Number of dimensions|
|`num_chunks`|BIGINT|Number of chunks|
|`compression_enabled`|BOOLEAN|Is compression enabled on the hypertable?|
|`is_distributed`|BOOLEAN|Is the hypertable distributed?|
|`replication_factor`|SMALLINT|Replication factor for a distributed hypertable|
|`data_nodes`|TEXT|Nodes on which hypertable is distributed|
|`tablespaces`|TEXT|Tablespaces attached to the hypertable |

### Sample usage

Get information about a hypertable.

```sql
CREATE TABLE dist_table(time timestamptz, device int, temp float);
SELECT create_distributed_hypertable('dist_table', 'time', 'device', replication_factor => 2);

SELECT * FROM timescaledb_information.hypertables
  WHERE hypertable_name = 'dist_table';

-[ RECORD 1 ]-------+-----------
hypertable_schema   | public
hypertable_name     | dist_table
owner               | postgres
num_dimensions      | 2
num_chunks          | 3
compression_enabled | f
is_distributed      | t
replication_factor  | 2
data_nodes          | {node_1, node_2}
tablespaces         |
```

[hypertable-docs]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hypertables/
