api/into_values-freq_agg.md, before:

---
api_name: into_values()
excerpt: Calculate all frequency estimates from a frequency aggregate or top N aggregate
license: community
toolkit: true
experimental: true
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [frequency, top N, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'frequency analysis'
hyperfunction_subfamily: SpaceSavingAggregate
hyperfunction_type: accessor
---

import Experimental from 'versionContent/_partials/_experimental.mdx';

# into_values()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>
This function returns the data accumulated in a
[frequency aggregate][freq_agg] or [top N aggregate][topn_agg].
The aggregate operates over `AnyElement` types, so this method
requires a type parameter to determine the type of the output.

<Experimental />

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`agg`|`FrequencyAggregate`|The aggregate to display the values for|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`value`|`AnyElement`|One of the most common values in the data from which the aggregate was created|
|`min_freq`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The minimum frequency of the value in the originating data|
|`max_freq`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The maximum frequency of the value in the originating data|

## Sample usage
This test uses a table of randomly generated data. The values used are the integer 
square roots of a random number in the range (0,400).
```sql
CREATE TABLE value_test(value INTEGER);
INSERT INTO value_test SELECT floor(sqrt(random() * 400)) FROM generate_series(1,100000);
```

This returns values representing more than 5% of the input:
```sql
SELECT value, min_freq, max_freq
FROM toolkit_experimental.into_values(
    (SELECT toolkit_experimental.freq_agg(0.05, value) FROM value_test));
```

The output for this query looks like this, with some variation due to randomness:
```sql
 value | min_freq | max_freq 
-------+----------+----------
    19 |  0.09815 |  0.09815
    18 |  0.09169 |  0.09169
    17 |  0.08804 |  0.08804
    16 |  0.08248 |  0.08248
    15 |  0.07703 |  0.07703
    14 |  0.07157 |  0.07157
    13 |  0.06746 |  0.06746
    12 |  0.06378 |  0.06378
    11 |  0.05565 |  0.05595
    10 |  0.05286 |  0.05289
```

[freq_agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/frequency-analysis/freq_agg/
[topn_agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/frequency-analysis/topn_agg/

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/into_values-freq_agg.md, after:

---
api_name: into_values()
excerpt: Calculate all frequency estimates from a frequency aggregate or top N aggregate
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [frequency, top N, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
  experimental: true
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: frequency analysis
  type: accessor
  aggregates:
    - freq_agg()
    - topn_agg()
# fields below will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'frequency analysis'
hyperfunction_subfamily: SpaceSavingAggregate
hyperfunction_type: accessor
---

import Experimental from 'versionContent/_partials/_experimental.mdx';

# into_values()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>

This function returns the data accumulated in a
[frequency aggregate][freq_agg] or [top N aggregate][topn_agg].
The aggregate operates over `AnyElement` types, so this method
requires a type parameter to determine the type of the output.

<Experimental />

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`agg`|`FrequencyAggregate`|The aggregate to display the values for|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`value`|`AnyElement`|One of the most common values in the data from which the aggregate was created|
|`min_freq`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The minimum frequency of the value in the originating data|
|`max_freq`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The maximum frequency of the value in the originating data|

## Sample usage

This test uses a table of randomly generated data. The values used are the integer
square roots of a random number in the range (0,400).

```sql
CREATE TABLE value_test(value INTEGER);
INSERT INTO value_test SELECT floor(sqrt(random() * 400)) FROM generate_series(1,100000);
```

This returns values representing more than 5% of the input:

```sql
SELECT value, min_freq, max_freq
FROM toolkit_experimental.into_values(
    (SELECT toolkit_experimental.freq_agg(0.05, value) FROM value_test));
```

The output for this query looks like this, with some variation due to randomness:

```sql
 value | min_freq | max_freq 
-------+----------+----------
    19 |  0.09815 |  0.09815
    18 |  0.09169 |  0.09169
    17 |  0.08804 |  0.08804
    16 |  0.08248 |  0.08248
    15 |  0.07703 |  0.07703
    14 |  0.07157 |  0.07157
    13 |  0.06746 |  0.06746
    12 |  0.06378 |  0.06378
    11 |  0.05565 |  0.05595
    10 |  0.05286 |  0.05289
```

[freq_agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/frequency-analysis/freq_agg/
[topn_agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/frequency-analysis/topn_agg/
