api/last.md, before:

---
api_name: last()
excerpt: Get the last value in one column when rows are ordered by another column
license: apache
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [hyperfunctions]
---

## last()

The `last` aggregate allows you to get the value of one column
as ordered by another. For example, `last(temperature, time)` returns the
latest temperature value based on time within an aggregate group.

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`value`|ANY ELEMENT|The value to return|
|`time`|TIMESTAMP or INTEGER|The timestamp to use for comparison|

### Sample usage

Get the temperature every 5 minutes for each device over the past day:
```sql
SELECT device_id, time_bucket('5 minutes', time) AS interval,
  last(temp, time)
FROM metrics
WHERE time > now () - INTERVAL '1 day'
GROUP BY device_id, interval
ORDER BY interval DESC;
```

<highlight type="warning">
 The `last` and `first` commands do **not** use indexes, and instead
 perform a sequential scan through their groups. They are primarily used
 for ordered selection within a `GROUP BY` aggregate, and not as an
 alternative to an `ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 1` clause to find the
 latest value (which uses indexes).
</highlight>

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter (#1436)
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/last.md, after:

---
api_name: last()
excerpt: Get the last value in one column when rows are ordered by another column
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [hyperfunctions]
api:
  license: apache
  type: function
hyperfunction:
  type: one-step aggregate
---

## last()

The `last` aggregate allows you to get the value of one column
as ordered by another. For example, `last(temperature, time)` returns the
latest temperature value based on time within an aggregate group.

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
|`value`|ANY ELEMENT|The value to return|
|`time`|TIMESTAMP or INTEGER|The timestamp to use for comparison|

### Sample usage

Get the temperature every 5 minutes for each device over the past day:

```sql
SELECT device_id, time_bucket('5 minutes', time) AS interval,
  last(temp, time)
FROM metrics
WHERE time > now () - INTERVAL '1 day'
GROUP BY device_id, interval
ORDER BY interval DESC;
```

<highlight type="warning">
The `last` and `first` commands do **not** use indexes, and instead
perform a sequential scan through their groups. They are primarily used
for ordered selection within a `GROUP BY` aggregate, and not as an
alternative to an `ORDER BY time DESC LIMIT 1` clause to find the
latest value (which uses indexes).
</highlight>
