api/lttb.md, before:

---
api_name: lttb()
excerpt: Downsample a time series using the Largest Triangle Three Buckets method
license: community
toolkit: true
experimental: true
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [downsample, smooth, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'downsample'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'downsample'
hyperfunction_type: other
---

# lttb()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>
[Largest Triangle Three Buckets][gh-lttb] is a downsampling method that 
tries to retain visual similarity between the downsampled data and the 
original dataset. The TimescaleDB Toolkit implementation of this takes 
`(timestamp, value)` pairs, sorts them if needed, and downsamples them.

## Required arguments

|Name| Type |Description|
|-|-|-|
|`time`|`TIMESTAMPTZ`|Time (x) value for the data point|
|`value`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|Data (y) value for the data point|
|`resolution`|`INTEGER`|Number of points the output should have|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`sortedtimevector`|`SortedTimevector`|A [`timevector`][hyperfunctions-timevectors] object containing the downsampled points. It can be unpacked via `unnest`.|

## Sample usage
This example creates a dramatically downsampled data set from a `sample_data` table:
```sql
SELECT time, value
FROM toolkit_experimental.unnest((
    SELECT toolkit_experimental.lttb(time, val, 4)
    FROM sample_data))
```

The output for this query:
```sql
          time          |       value
------------------------+--------------------
 2020-01-11 00:00:00+00 |   12.7015115293407
 2020-02-01 00:00:00+00 |  5.004324248633603
 2020-03-03 00:00:00+00 | 14.982710485116087
 2020-04-20 00:00:00+00 | 10.022128489940254
```


[gh-lttb]: https://github.com/sveinn-steinarsson/flot-downsample
[hyperfunctions-timevectors]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/function-pipelines/#timevectors

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter (#1436)
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/lttb.md, after:

---
api_name: lttb()
excerpt: Downsample a time series using the Largest Triangle Three Buckets method
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [downsample, smooth, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
  experimental: true
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: downsample
  type: one-step aggregate
# fields below will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: true
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'downsample'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'downsample'
hyperfunction_type: other
---

# lttb()  <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag><tag type="experimental-toolkit">Experimental</tag>

[Largest Triangle Three Buckets][gh-lttb] is a downsampling method that
tries to retain visual similarity between the downsampled data and the
original dataset. The TimescaleDB Toolkit implementation of this takes
`(timestamp, value)` pairs, sorts them if needed, and downsamples them.

## Required arguments

|Name| Type |Description|
|-|-|-|
|`time`|`TIMESTAMPTZ`|Time (x) value for the data point|
|`value`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|Data (y) value for the data point|
|`resolution`|`INTEGER`|Number of points the output should have|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`sortedtimevector`|`SortedTimevector`|A [`timevector`][hyperfunctions-timevectors] object containing the downsampled points. It can be unpacked via `unnest`.|

## Sample usage

This example creates a dramatically downsampled data set from a `sample_data` table:

```sql
SELECT time, value
FROM toolkit_experimental.unnest((
    SELECT toolkit_experimental.lttb(time, val, 4)
    FROM sample_data))
```

The output for this query:

```sql
          time          |       value
------------------------+--------------------
 2020-01-11 00:00:00+00 |   12.7015115293407
 2020-02-01 00:00:00+00 |  5.004324248633603
 2020-03-03 00:00:00+00 | 14.982710485116087
 2020-04-20 00:00:00+00 | 10.022128489940254
```

[gh-lttb]: https://github.com/sveinn-steinarsson/flot-downsample
[hyperfunctions-timevectors]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/function-pipelines/#timevectors
