api/skewness.md, before:

---
api_name: 'skewness() | skewness_y() | skewness_x()'
excerpt: Calculate the skewness from values in a statistical aggregate
license: community
toolkit: true
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: false
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-1d
---

# skewness() / skewness_y() / skewness_x() <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag>

```SQL
skewness(summary StatsSummary1D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```
```SQL
skewness_y(summary StatsSummary2D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```
```SQL
skewness_x(summary StatsSummary2D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```

Calculate the [skewness][skewness], or the third statisical moment, of the values contained
in a statistical aggregate. In a two-dimensional [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] use the `_y`/ `_x` 
form to access the `skewness` of the dependent and independent variables. 

The `method` determines whether you calculate a population or sample skewness. 
These values can be provided as their full names, or you can abbreviate them as `pop` 
or `samp`. These are the only four accepted values for the `method` argument. The 
default is `sample`.

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary1D`/`StatsSummary2D`|The already constructed data structure from a previous [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] call|

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`method`|`TEXT`|The method for the calculation 'population' or 'sample' (default)|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`skewness`/`skewness_y`/`skewness_x`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The skewness of the values in the statistical aggregate|

## Sample usage

```SQL
SELECT skewness_x(stats_agg(data, data))
FROM generate_series(0, 100) data;
```
```output
 skewness_x 
------------
          0
```


[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/
[skewness]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skewness

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter (#1436)
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/skewness.md, after:

---
api_name: skewness() | skewness_y() | skewness_x()
excerpt: Calculate the skewness from values in a statistical aggregate
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
type:
  license: community
  type: function
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: statistical aggregates
  type: accessor, 1D
  aggregates:
    - stats_agg()
# fields below will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-1d
---

# skewness() / skewness_y() / skewness_x() <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag>

```SQL
skewness(summary StatsSummary1D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```

```SQL
skewness_y(summary StatsSummary2D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```

```SQL
skewness_x(summary StatsSummary2D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```

Calculate the [skewness][skewness], or the third statisical moment, of the values contained
in a statistical aggregate. In a two-dimensional [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] use the `_y`/ `_x`
form to access the `skewness` of the dependent and independent variables.

The `method` determines whether you calculate a population or sample skewness.
These values can be provided as their full names, or you can abbreviate them as `pop`
or `samp`. These are the only four accepted values for the `method` argument. The
default is `sample`.

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary1D`/`StatsSummary2D`|The already constructed data structure from a previous [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] call|

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`method`|`TEXT`|The method for the calculation 'population' or 'sample' (default)|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`skewness`/`skewness_y`/`skewness_x`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The skewness of the values in the statistical aggregate|

## Sample usage

```SQL
SELECT skewness_x(stats_agg(data, data))
FROM generate_series(0, 100) data;
```

```output
 skewness_x 
------------
          0
```

[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/
[skewness]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Skewness
