api/sum-stats.md, before:

---
api_name: 'sum() | sum_y() | sum_x()'
excerpt: Calculate the sum from values in a statistical aggregate
license: community
toolkit: true
topic: hyperfunctions
keywords: [statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
tags: [sum]
api_category: hyperfunction
api_experimental: false
hyperfunction_toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-1d
---

# sum(), sum_y(), and sum_x() <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag>

```SQL
sum(summary StatsSummary1D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```
```SQL
sum_y(summary StatsSummary2D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```
```SQL
sum_x(summary StatsSummary2D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```

Get the  sum of the values contained in a statistical aggregate.

In a two-dimensional [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] use the `_y`/ `_x` form to access the 
`sum` of the dependent and independent variables. 


For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary1D` / `StatsSummary2D`|The already constructed data structure from a previous [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] call|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`sum`/`sum_y`/`sum_x`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The standard deviation of the values in the statistical aggregate|

## Sample usage

```SQL
SELECT sum_y(stats_agg(data, data))
FROM generate_series(0, 100) data;
```
```output
 sum_y 
-------
  5050
```


[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/

Commit message:

Clean up API frontmatter
Clean up API frontmatter. Namespace API- and hyperfunction-specific
fields so things are easier to find.

Convert `topic` (singular) to `topics` (plural) to accommodate APIs that
relate to multiple topics (for example, both compression and jobs).

Mark fields that will be deprecated (as soon as the hyperfunction tables
component is updated).

Convert the hyperfunction tables in `About hyperfunctions` to be sorted
by type:
*   Makes it easier to find things and makes the structure of families
    clearer
*   There is currently a bug with the non-sorted tables

api/sum-stats.md, after:

---
api_name: sum() | sum_y() | sum_x()
excerpt: Calculate the sum from values in a statistical aggregate
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [statistics, statistical aggregate, hyperfunctions, toolkit]
tags: [sum]
api:
  license: community
  type: function
  toolkit: true
hyperfunction:
  family: statistical aggregates
  type: accessor, 1D
  aggregates:
    - stats_agg()
# fields below will be deprecated
api_category: hyperfunction
toolkit: true
hyperfunction_family: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_subfamily: 'statistical aggregates'
hyperfunction_type: accessor-1d
---

# sum(), sum_y(), and sum_x() <tag type="toolkit">Toolkit</tag>

```SQL
sum(summary StatsSummary1D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```

```SQL
sum_y(summary StatsSummary2D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```

```SQL
sum_x(summary StatsSummary2D, method TEXT) RETURNS BIGINT
```

Get the  sum of the values contained in a statistical aggregate.

In a two-dimensional [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] use the `_y`/ `_x` form to access the
`sum` of the dependent and independent variables.

For more information about statistical aggregate functions, see the
[hyperfunctions documentation][hyperfunctions-stats-agg].

## Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`summary`|`StatsSummary1D` / `StatsSummary2D`|The already constructed data structure from a previous [`stats_agg`][stats-agg] call|

## Returns

|Column|Type|Description|
|-|-|-|
|`sum`/`sum_y`/`sum_x`|`DOUBLE PRECISION`|The standard deviation of the values in the statistical aggregate|

## Sample usage

```SQL
SELECT sum_y(stats_agg(data, data))
FROM generate_series(0, 100) data;
```

```output
 sum_y 
-------
  5050
```

[hyperfunctions-stats-agg]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/how-to-guides/hyperfunctions/stats-aggs/
[stats-agg]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/stats_aggs/stats_agg/
