api/time_bucket_ng.md, before:

---
api_name: timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng()
excerpt: Bucket rows by time interval with support for time zones, months, and years
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [aggregate, hyperfunctions]
tags: [time buckets]
api:
  license: apache
  type: function
  experimental: true
  deprecated: true
hyperfunction:
  type: bucket
---

import DeprecationNotice from "versionContent/_partials/_deprecated.mdx";

## timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng() <Tag type="experimental">Experimental</Tag>

The `time_bucket_ng()` function is an experimental version of the
[`time_bucket()`][time_bucket] function. It introduced some new capabilities,
such as monthly buckets and timezone support. Those features are now part of the
regular `time_bucket()` function.

<DeprecationNotice />

<Highlight type="warning">
The `time_bucket()` and `time_bucket_ng()` functions are similar, but not
completely compatible. There are two main differences.

Firstly, `time_bucket_ng()` doesn't work with timestamps prior to `origin`,
while `time_bucket()` does.

Secondly, the default `origin` values differ. `time_bucket()` uses an origin
date of January 3, 2000, for buckets shorter than a month. `time_bucket_ng()`
uses an origin date of January 1, 2000, for all bucket sizes.
</Highlight>

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `bucket_width` | INTERVAL | A PostgreSQL time interval for how long each bucket is |
| `ts` | DATE, TIMESTAMP or TIMESTAMPTZ | The timestamp to bucket |

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `origin` | Should be the same as `ts` | Buckets are aligned relative to this timestamp |
| `timezone` | TEXT | The name of the timezone. The argument can be specified only if the type of `ts` is TIMESTAMPTZ |

For backward compatibility with `time_bucket()` the `timezone` argument is
optional. However, it is required for time buckets that are less than 24 hours.

If you call the TIMESTAMPTZ-version of the function without the `timezone`
argument, the timezone defaults to the session's timezone and so the function
can't be used with continuous aggregates. Best practice is to use
`time_bucket_ng(interval, timestamptz, text)` and specify the timezone.

### Returns

The function returns the bucket's start time. The return value type is the
same as `ts`.

### Sample usage

In this example, `time_bucket_ng()` is used to create bucket data in three month
intervals:

```sql
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('3 month', date '2021-08-01');
 time_bucket_ng
----------------
 2021-07-01
(1 row)
```

This example uses `time_bucket_ng()` to bucket data in one year intervals:

```sql
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('1 year', date '2021-08-01');
 time_bucket_ng
----------------
 2021-01-01
(1 row)
```

To split time into buckets, `time_bucket_ng()` uses a starting point in time
called `origin`. The default origin is `2000-01-01`. `time_bucket_ng` cannot use
timestamps earlier than `origin`:

```sql
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('100 years', timestamp '1988-05-08');
ERROR:  origin must be before the given date
```

Going back in time from `origin` isn't usually possible, especially when you
consider timezones and daylight savings time (DST). Note also that there is no
reasonable way to split time in variable-sized buckets (such as months) from an
arbitrary `origin`, so `origin` defaults to the first day of the month.

To bypass named limitations, you can override the default `origin`:

```sql
-- working with timestamps before 2000-01-01
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('100 years', timestamp '1988-05-08', origin => '1900-01-01');
   time_bucket_ng
---------------------
 1900-01-01 00:00:00

-- unlike the default origin, which is Saturday, 2000-01-03 is Monday
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('1 week', timestamp '2021-08-26', origin => '2000-01-03');
   time_bucket_ng
---------------------
 2021-08-23 00:00:00
```

This example shows how `time_bucket_ng()` is used to bucket data
by months in a specified timezone:

```sql
-- note that timestamptz is displayed differently depending on the session parameters
SET TIME ZONE 'Europe/Moscow';
SET

SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('1 month', timestamptz '2001-02-03 12:34:56 MSK', timezone => 'Europe/Moscow');
     time_bucket_ng
------------------------
 2001-02-01 00:00:00+03
```

You can use `time_bucket_ng()` with continuous aggregates. This example tracks
the temperature in Moscow over seven day intervals:

```sql
CREATE TABLE conditions(
  day DATE NOT NULL,
  city text NOT NULL,
  temperature INT NOT NULL);

SELECT create_hypertable(
  'conditions', by_range('day', INTERVAL '1 day')
);

INSERT INTO conditions (day, city, temperature) VALUES
  ('2021-06-14', 'Moscow', 26),
  ('2021-06-15', 'Moscow', 22),
  ('2021-06-16', 'Moscow', 24),
  ('2021-06-17', 'Moscow', 24),
  ('2021-06-18', 'Moscow', 27),
  ('2021-06-19', 'Moscow', 28),
  ('2021-06-20', 'Moscow', 30),
  ('2021-06-21', 'Moscow', 31),
  ('2021-06-22', 'Moscow', 34),
  ('2021-06-23', 'Moscow', 34),
  ('2021-06-24', 'Moscow', 34),
  ('2021-06-25', 'Moscow', 32),
  ('2021-06-26', 'Moscow', 32),
  ('2021-06-27', 'Moscow', 31);

CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_weekly
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT city,
       timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('7 days', day) AS bucket,
       MIN(temperature),
       MAX(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY city, bucket;

SELECT to_char(bucket, 'YYYY-MM-DD'), city, min, max
FROM conditions_summary_weekly
ORDER BY bucket;

  to_char   |  city  | min | max
------------+--------+-----+-----
 2021-06-12 | Moscow |  22 |  27
 2021-06-19 | Moscow |  28 |  34
 2021-06-26 | Moscow |  31 |  32
(3 rows)
```

<Highlight type="note">
The `by_range` dimension builder is an addition to TimescaleDB 2.13.
</Highlight>

For more information, see the [continuous aggregates documentation][caggs].

<Highlight type="important">
While `time_bucket_ng()` supports months and timezones,
continuous aggregates cannot always be used with monthly
buckets or buckets with timezones.
</Highlight>

This table shows which `time_bucket_ng()` functions can be used in a continuous aggregate:

|Function|Available in continuous aggregate|TimescaleDB version|
|-|-|-|
|Buckets by seconds, minutes, hours, days, and weeks|✅|2.4.0 and later|
|Buckets by months and years|✅|2.6.0 or later|
|Timezones support|✅|2.6.0 or later|
|Specify custom origin|✅|2.7.0 or later|

[time_bucket]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/time_bucket/
[caggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/

Commit message:

Add example for new generalized API (#2904)
* Add note about new interface availability

Add note about dimension info constructors only available in 2.13 and
later to all places where the new interface is used.

Add example of using partitioning function with dimension builders.

Correcting some parameter names for dimension builders.

* Update api/dimension_info.md

Co-authored-by: alejandrodnm <alejandrodnm@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Mats Kindahl <mats.kindahl@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Mats Kindahl <mats.kindahl@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: alejandrodnm <alejandrodnm@gmail.com>

api/time_bucket_ng.md, after:

---
api_name: timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng()
excerpt: Bucket rows by time interval with support for time zones, months, and years
topics: [hyperfunctions]
keywords: [aggregate, hyperfunctions]
tags: [time buckets]
api:
  license: apache
  type: function
  experimental: true
  deprecated: true
hyperfunction:
  type: bucket
---

import DeprecationNotice from "versionContent/_partials/_deprecated.mdx";

## timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng() <Tag type="experimental">Experimental</Tag>

The `time_bucket_ng()` function is an experimental version of the
[`time_bucket()`][time_bucket] function. It introduced some new capabilities,
such as monthly buckets and timezone support. Those features are now part of the
regular `time_bucket()` function.

<DeprecationNotice />

<Highlight type="warning">
The `time_bucket()` and `time_bucket_ng()` functions are similar, but not
completely compatible. There are two main differences.

Firstly, `time_bucket_ng()` doesn't work with timestamps prior to `origin`,
while `time_bucket()` does.

Secondly, the default `origin` values differ. `time_bucket()` uses an origin
date of January 3, 2000, for buckets shorter than a month. `time_bucket_ng()`
uses an origin date of January 1, 2000, for all bucket sizes.
</Highlight>

### Required arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `bucket_width` | INTERVAL | A PostgreSQL time interval for how long each bucket is |
| `ts` | DATE, TIMESTAMP or TIMESTAMPTZ | The timestamp to bucket |

### Optional arguments

|Name|Type|Description|
|---|---|---|
| `origin` | Should be the same as `ts` | Buckets are aligned relative to this timestamp |
| `timezone` | TEXT | The name of the timezone. The argument can be specified only if the type of `ts` is TIMESTAMPTZ |

For backward compatibility with `time_bucket()` the `timezone` argument is
optional. However, it is required for time buckets that are less than 24 hours.

If you call the TIMESTAMPTZ-version of the function without the `timezone`
argument, the timezone defaults to the session's timezone and so the function
can't be used with continuous aggregates. Best practice is to use
`time_bucket_ng(interval, timestamptz, text)` and specify the timezone.

### Returns

The function returns the bucket's start time. The return value type is the
same as `ts`.

### Sample usage

In this example, `time_bucket_ng()` is used to create bucket data in three month
intervals:

```sql
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('3 month', date '2021-08-01');
 time_bucket_ng
----------------
 2021-07-01
(1 row)
```

This example uses `time_bucket_ng()` to bucket data in one year intervals:

```sql
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('1 year', date '2021-08-01');
 time_bucket_ng
----------------
 2021-01-01
(1 row)
```

To split time into buckets, `time_bucket_ng()` uses a starting point in time
called `origin`. The default origin is `2000-01-01`. `time_bucket_ng` cannot use
timestamps earlier than `origin`:

```sql
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('100 years', timestamp '1988-05-08');
ERROR:  origin must be before the given date
```

Going back in time from `origin` isn't usually possible, especially when you
consider timezones and daylight savings time (DST). Note also that there is no
reasonable way to split time in variable-sized buckets (such as months) from an
arbitrary `origin`, so `origin` defaults to the first day of the month.

To bypass named limitations, you can override the default `origin`:

```sql
-- working with timestamps before 2000-01-01
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('100 years', timestamp '1988-05-08', origin => '1900-01-01');
   time_bucket_ng
---------------------
 1900-01-01 00:00:00

-- unlike the default origin, which is Saturday, 2000-01-03 is Monday
SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('1 week', timestamp '2021-08-26', origin => '2000-01-03');
   time_bucket_ng
---------------------
 2021-08-23 00:00:00
```

This example shows how `time_bucket_ng()` is used to bucket data
by months in a specified timezone:

```sql
-- note that timestamptz is displayed differently depending on the session parameters
SET TIME ZONE 'Europe/Moscow';
SET

SELECT timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('1 month', timestamptz '2001-02-03 12:34:56 MSK', timezone => 'Europe/Moscow');
     time_bucket_ng
------------------------
 2001-02-01 00:00:00+03
```

You can use `time_bucket_ng()` with continuous aggregates. This example tracks
the temperature in Moscow over seven day intervals:

```sql
CREATE TABLE conditions(
  day DATE NOT NULL,
  city text NOT NULL,
  temperature INT NOT NULL);

SELECT create_hypertable(
  'conditions', by_range('day', INTERVAL '1 day')
);

INSERT INTO conditions (day, city, temperature) VALUES
  ('2021-06-14', 'Moscow', 26),
  ('2021-06-15', 'Moscow', 22),
  ('2021-06-16', 'Moscow', 24),
  ('2021-06-17', 'Moscow', 24),
  ('2021-06-18', 'Moscow', 27),
  ('2021-06-19', 'Moscow', 28),
  ('2021-06-20', 'Moscow', 30),
  ('2021-06-21', 'Moscow', 31),
  ('2021-06-22', 'Moscow', 34),
  ('2021-06-23', 'Moscow', 34),
  ('2021-06-24', 'Moscow', 34),
  ('2021-06-25', 'Moscow', 32),
  ('2021-06-26', 'Moscow', 32),
  ('2021-06-27', 'Moscow', 31);

CREATE MATERIALIZED VIEW conditions_summary_weekly
WITH (timescaledb.continuous) AS
SELECT city,
       timescaledb_experimental.time_bucket_ng('7 days', day) AS bucket,
       MIN(temperature),
       MAX(temperature)
FROM conditions
GROUP BY city, bucket;

SELECT to_char(bucket, 'YYYY-MM-DD'), city, min, max
FROM conditions_summary_weekly
ORDER BY bucket;

  to_char   |  city  | min | max
------------+--------+-----+-----
 2021-06-12 | Moscow |  22 |  27
 2021-06-19 | Moscow |  28 |  34
 2021-06-26 | Moscow |  31 |  32
(3 rows)
```

<Highlight type="note">
The `by_range` dimension builder is an addition to TimescaleDB
2.13. For simpler cases, like this one, you can also create the
hypertable using the old syntax:

```sql
SELECT create_hypertable('<table name>', '<time column name>');
```
</Highlight>

For more information, see the [continuous aggregates documentation][caggs].

<Highlight type="important">
While `time_bucket_ng()` supports months and timezones,
continuous aggregates cannot always be used with monthly
buckets or buckets with timezones.
</Highlight>

This table shows which `time_bucket_ng()` functions can be used in a continuous aggregate:

|Function|Available in continuous aggregate|TimescaleDB version|
|-|-|-|
|Buckets by seconds, minutes, hours, days, and weeks|✅|2.4.0 and later|
|Buckets by months and years|✅|2.6.0 or later|
|Timezones support|✅|2.6.0 or later|
|Specify custom origin|✅|2.7.0 or later|

[time_bucket]: /api/:currentVersion:/hyperfunctions/time_bucket/
[caggs]: /use-timescale/:currentVersion:/continuous-aggregates/
