timescaledb/tutorials/financial-tick-data/_dataset-tutorial.md, before:

---
title: Verb the widget tutorial - set up dataset
excerpt: Set up a dataset so you can verb your widgets to achieve an outcome using the tool
keywords: [noun, verb, tutorial]
tags: [noun, noun]
---

<!-- markdown-link-check-disable -->

# The dataset

Provide a very short explanation of the dataset. Explain if it being created
from scratch, downloaded from a server and uploaded to the readers' own
database, or being accessed directly from a third-party service.

## Set up the dataset

This is the introduction to the procedure about setting up the dataset. Use one
or two sentences to explain the procedure. Note the simple verb form in the
title; the procedure itself uses the gerund-verb form (an `-ing` word) instead.

<procedure>

### Setting up the dataset

1.  Start each step with a verb (create, use, install, etc) or a location (at
    the `psql` prompt, on your local filesystem, on the server, etc) followed by
    a verb.
1.  Do the next step:

   ```sql|bash|...
   Add any commands in a block like this.
   Make sure you specify the language.
   Do not include any prompts, or sudo commands. If root is required \
   state it in the step instead. Break long lines appropriately.
   ```

1.  Make sure that any action that is the result of the step stays with the step.
   For example: clicking a button, and a dialog box appearing, are a single step.
1.  Finish the procedure on the final step. Do not include a result statement.

</procedure>

Include any reference-style links at the bottom of the page.

Commit message:

Set up add data partial

timescaledb/tutorials/financial-tick-data/_dataset-tutorial.md, after:

---
title: Verb the widget tutorial - set up dataset
excerpt: Set up a dataset so you can verb your widgets to achieve an outcome using the tool
keywords: [noun, verb, tutorial]
tags: [noun, noun]
---

import CreateHypertable from "versionContent/_partials/_create-hypertable-twelvedata.mdx";
import AddData from "versionContent/_partials/_add-data-twelvedata.mdx";

# Create the dataset

This tutorial uses a dataset that contains second-by-second stock-trade data for
the top 100 most-traded symbols, in a hypertable named `stocks_real_time`. It
also includes a separate table of company symbols and company names, in a
regular PostgreSQL table named `company`.

## Prerequisites

Before you begin, make sure you have:

*   A TimescaleDB instance running locally or on the cloud. For more
    information, see [installation options][install-docs].
*   [`psql`][psql], or any other PostgreSQL client.

## The dataset

The dataset is updated on a nightly basis and contains data from the last four
weeks, typically around 8 million rows of data. Stock trades are recorded in
real-time Monday through Friday, typically during normal trading hours of the
New York Stock Exchange (9:30&nbsp;AM - 4:00&nbsp;PM EST).

<CreateHypertable />

<AddData />

[nyc-tlc]: https://www1.nyc.gov/site/tlc/about/tlc-trip-record-data.page
